
	Daimler Trucks and Buses Southern Africa (DTBSA) has launched an entry-level Mercedes-Benz commuter bus aimed at fleet operators such as Putco and Golden Arrow Bus Services. 
	The OF-1723 (pronounced 17-23) bus chassis is currently imported from the Daimler plant in India, but should be assembled at the DTBSA truck and bus plant, in East London, in the first half of next year. 
	DTBSA says the OF-1723 aims “to offer a reliable, durable and value for money alternative in the commuter bus segment”. 
	DTBSA executive director Jasper Hafkamp describes the current South African bus market as “quite challenging”, with 2017 sales expected to be down 22% on 2016 numbers, this while the overall new-vehicle market should be stable compared with last year. 
	He says the bus market can be divided into three segments, namely commuter buses, coaches and city buses. 
	While the commuter and coach markets have remained fairly stable in 2017, the city bus segment is at virtually “zero” this year, owing to the absence of any significant public tender business. 
	This does not bode well for DTBSA, which is “number one” in South Africa in city buses, but facing “challenges” in the other two bus markets, says Hafkamp. 
	He says DTBSA aims to be the number one bus manufacturer in South Africa. 
	Hafkamp says he expects the overall bus market to improve in 2018, as investment tends to flow prior to an election year in South Africa. 
	Mercedes-Benz Bus and Coach Southern Africa brand manager Shane Henry says the OF-1723 is being introduced in the current “tough economy” as the product is “all about total cost of ownership”. 
	“We listened to our customers who highlighted the tough conditions they are operating in, as well as the limited financial resources they are facing.” 
	Henry says the OF-1723 bus chassis is equipped with an “economical driveline and a steel suspension that is perfectly suited for Southern African conditions”. 
	The bus chassis – with fleet operators commissioning a bus body from a body builder of their choice –  is driven by the Mercedes-Benz OM 906LA engine platform. 
	The unit offers 175 kW (235 hp) of power and maximum engine torque of 850 Nm. 
	Mercedes-Benz Bus and Coach Southern Africa says the engine allows fewer gearshifts, resulting in improved fuel efficiency and driving comfort. The flat torque curve means that high torque is available at low engine speeds. 
	The Mercedes-Benz designed G85 six-speed gearbox is fitted with a cable shift mechanism and larger sized gears, which improve the gearbox’s reliability. 
	An overdrive gear for lower engine revolutions during highway operation provides sufficient torque and high power, yielding better fuel consumption. 
	Features such as the ‘constant throttle valve engine brake’ and ‘high boost pressure turbocharger’ promise to further enhance fuel efficiency. 
	“From the RS4 rear axles that aid highway driving and improve fuel efficiency, to the wider brakes and larger brake chambers, which mean a longer life for brake liners, we really have ensured that this product makes a tangible effect in our customers’ businesses,” notes Henry. 
	The OF-1723 chassis comes standard with a power-assisted, tiltable and telescopic steering that enables easy manoeuvring.  