
	State-owned Trans-Caledon Tunnel Authority (TCTA) completed two significant projects, the Mooi-Mgeni Transfer Scheme (MMTS) Phase 2 and the Acid Mine Drainage Short-term Intervention (AMD-STI) Eastern Basin plant during the 2017 financial year, CEO Leonard Radzuma said on Thursday. 
	Presenting the entity’s annual report, he highlighted that the MMTS Phase 2 pump station and pipeline had been ready for operation by June 2016, while the AMD-STI Eastern Basin plant had been ready for trial operation by March 2016, and ready for handover by August 2016. Both projects met the requirement deadlines. 
	“We pledge our commitment to continue delivering quality and professional service to our principals, funders, partners and stakeholders, as we navigate our way towards fresh possibilities in the new financial year, ensuring that we continue to add value and affirm excellence in all our endeavours,” he said. 
	In his address, Radzuma pointed out that the TCTA has grown from being a special purpose vehicle for the Lesotho Highlands Water Project to making a significant contribution to providing water for domestic consumption and key industries, contributing 1.31-billion cubic metres a year of water. 
	“We want to also stake our claim by saying we keep the lights on for the nation, through the supply of water from our projects to Eskom’s power stations, as well as the petrochemical installations of Sasol.” 
	Radzuma further stated that the TCTA had, during the 2016/17 financial year, affirmed its business value proposition of contributing to the nation’s economic growth and social wellbeing, through its integrated approach to the cost-effective funding of water infrastructure, efficient execution of projects and prudent management of debt. 
	“Despite the financial challenges faced by the country and globally, and as we wait with baited breath to hear the fate of the country in the decisions to be made by the ratings agencies on the country’s sovereign rating, we are happy to report that the TCTA continues to demonstrate that it is a good investment because all its projects are currently rated AA+,” he said. 
	Reporting on the progress on the AMD-STI he said the preliminary water treatment has further limited the load of various hazardous metals to acceptable levels, lowering salinity in the receiving water body and helping to reduce dilution releases from the Vaal dam.  
	This intervention provided TCTA with an opportunity to venture into the area of desalination, thereby broadening its business reach and ability to contribute to water solutions in the country, well into the future. 
	With the launch of the latest AMD treatment plant in February 2017, the organisation finalised the short-term intervention phase of the project. 