
	The Global New Car Assessment Programme (NCAP), together with the Automobile Association (AA) of South Africa, on Wednesday launched the #SaferCarsforAfrica initiative, in Cape Town, with the first independent crash test assessment of some of South Africa’s most popular compact and small cars. 
	The models tested included the Volkswagen (VW) Polo Vivo, the Datsun Go+, the Toyota Etios, the Renault Sandero and the Chery QQ3, which, combined, represent 65% of all new cars sold in South Africa last year. 
	The crash test assessment rates the structural integrity of tested vehicles, with vehicles rated at between one and four stars in terms of both adult and child occupant protection. The lowest ratings indicate a high probability of life threatening injury in a road crash. 
	“The crash tests represent an important step in road safety in South Africa. We believe consumers have a right to know what the safety ratings are on the cars they want to buy,” AA South Africa CEO Collins Khumalo said at the launch. 
	He highlighted that the results were critical to educating the public about vehicle safety and empowering road users to make informed decisions when buying a vehicle. 
	“In the same way emissions and green ratings are displayed on vehicles, we think safety ratings should also be displayed on vehicles, and we don’t believe it should be too much of a challenge to make it happen,” he said. 
	Khumalo pointed out that there were 11-million vehicles on South Africa’s roads, with 14 000 people dying in car crashes each year. 
	“These statistics indicate a very real problem on our roads that requires urgent attention,” he said. 
	He further noted that there were about 832 000 car crashes on South Africa’s roads every year, with 202 000 of those accidents leading to new insurance claims and a liability of R188-billion in terms of claims. 
	“In 2016, the United Nations (UN) General Assembly adopted a road safety resolution which recognised the important role NCAPs play as a catalyst for improving vehicle safety standards,” Global NCAP chairperson Lauchlan McIntosh said at the launch. 
	He noted that the UN has sought to encourage the spread of NCAPs across various regions and automotive markets globally and was helping to achieve that goal with the launch of the first ever crashworthiness programme for cars sold in Africa. 
	He pointed out that Global NCAP has provided assistance to launch similar programmes in South America, India and the Association of South East Asian Nations region, which has led to the delivery of safer cars into those markets over the last five years. 
	“Working closely with our partners at AA South Africa, our new campaign is an important first milestone on the road to safer cars for Africa.” 
	One of the vehicles tested, the Chery QQ3, achieved a zero-star rating for its poor adult occupant protection, as well as for its child occupant protection. 
	The rating was given owing to poor vehicle readiness to accommodate child seats, while there were also no airbags for adult passengers. 
	“It’s extremely disappointing that there’s a zero-star car. Such a poor result shows why it is so important for countries like South Africa to fully apply the UN’s crash test standards,” said Global NCAP secretary general David Ward. 
	He stated that consumers needed clear, comparative crash test information to help inform their car purchase decisions. 
	“This is why Global NCAP supports the introduction of mandatory crash test labelling for all new cars sold in South Africa,” he said. 
	Ward, meanwhile, also lauded the fact that there had been a four-star-rated car among the vehicles tested. 
	The Toyota Etios achieved a four-star rating for adult occupant protection, with the vehicle structure rated as stable. 
	The car includes seatbelts with pretensioners for both front passengers. 
	Further, using the child seats recommended by Toyota, the Etios achieved a three-star rating for child occupant protection. 
	The Renault Sandero, meanwhile, achieved a three-star rating for adult occupant protection, with the vehicle structure rated as stable. The car does, however, not include seatbelt pretensioners. 
	Using the child seats recommended by Renault, the Sandero achieved a four-star rating for child occupant protection. 
	The VW Polo Vivo also achieved a three-star rating for adult occupant protection but does not include seatbelt pretensioners. 
	Using the child seats recommended by VW, the Polo Vivo achieved a three-star rating for child protection. 
	Meanwhile, the Datsun GO+ achieved a one-star rating for its poor adult occupant protection, with the vehicle structure rated as unstable. 
	The Datsun GO+ achieved a two-star rating for child occupant protection using the recommended child seats. 