
	Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa has called on all developed countries to urgently implement their pre-2020 pledges, including the provision of additional, new and predicable support to developing countries to reduce the effects of climate change. 
	Speaking at the Bonn climate conference, or COP23, in Fiji, she noted that the recent hurricanes in the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico, floods and droughts in Sierra Leone and Ethiopia and fires in California, were reminders of the dangers posed by climate change, which was “increasing exponentially”. 
	She stressed that action could not be delayed any longer. 
	Molewa added that the onset of climate change would have severe impacts on Southern Africa, with shifting rainfall patterns, more frequent droughts and flooding causing devastating health, water, food and energy security impacts. 
	“[It] will adversely affect the poorest South Africans the most. Therefore, we are investing heavily in taking adaptation action. Now is the time to act for the greater global good and future generations,” she pointed out. 
	“We want to stress that the success of next year’s Talanoa Facilitative Dialogue is essential towards raising ambition in the post-2020 period. It is also essential for developed countries to honour their pre-2020 commitments,” she added. 
	CRITIQUE ON THE US
	In June, US President Donald Trump announced that the country would cease all participation in the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change mitigation. Trump stated that the Paris accord would undermine the US economy and put the US at a permanent disadvantage. 
	The US can, however, not withdraw from the agreement before November 4, 2020. 
	Molewa, however, noted that the Paris Agreement was “irreversible” and could not be renegotiated. “We are resolute in ensuring its implementation,” she highlighted. 
	“We are disappointed that there seems to be little appetite to accelerate pre-2020 action, as exemplified by the fact that the Doha Amendment has not yet come into force and means of implementation support to developing countries is declining,” she added. 
	Molewa concluded that the COP23 outcome should address the process through which countries arrive at the negotiation text, find balance in terms of how the operational rules evolve and, through the Talanoa Facilitative Dialogue design, include consideration of all relevant interests. 