
	Airports Company South Africa (ACSA) CEO Bongani Maseko has been appointed chairperson of the world governing board of the Airports Council International (ACI), the trade representative of the world’s airports, for a two-year term.
	
	ACI serves 623 members operating 1 940 airports in 176 countries and aims to advance the interests of airports and to promote professional excellence in airport management and operations around the world.
	
	Maseko took up the position of chairperson after being formally voted in by members at the recent ACI Africa/World General Assembly held in Mauritius.
	
	“The confidence that the ACI Assembly has placed in me speaks to the role of African airports in ensuring that they are competing with the best in the world in terms of best practice on airport development, management and operations.
	
	“Aviation in Africa is slowly becoming a strong contributor to global economic growth as the tourism industry grows. The next 20 years will see the most growth in passenger numbers coming from Africa,” said Maseko.
	
	Maseko has 24 years of experience in airport management, having first joined the industry at San Francisco Airport. He has a degree in Aviation Business Administration from Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, and in Airport Systems Planning and Design and Airport Ground Transportation Planning from the University of California.
	
	He joined ACSA in April 1999, filling in as acting MD from October 2011 until his appointment as CEO in 2013. Prior to that, he was group executive of airport operations from September 2004. His earlier positions included three-and-a-half years leading OR Tambo International Airport as general manager. 
	“I am honoured to work in collaboration with leading airport professionals on the World Governing Board so that the voices of airports globally continue to contribute meaningfully. 
	“This will ensure that ACI continues to help our member airports perform well in terms of operational efficiencies which, ultimately, contributes to the value chain, providing a smooth end-to-end process to a passenger’s experience.”
	
	Established in 1991, the ACI represents airports’ interests with governments and international organisations such as the International Civil Aviation Organisation; develops standards, policies and practices for airports; and provides information and training opportunities to raise standards around the world. 