
	City of Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba has called for immediate intervention to stop the theft and vandalism of road-related infrastructure, which in the first five months of the current financial year cost the city R12.3-million. 
	This included the theft and damage of man-hole covers, traffic signal poles, copper cables, road signage, guardrails, traffic signal poles and bridge railings. 
	“The economic impact of theft and vandalism on our roads has far wider implications for the city,” said Mashaba, noting that local government would embark on progressive interventions to address this. 
	Of the 31 closed-circuit television cameras installed around the city, only three remained, while 31 of 427 uninterrupted power supply (UPS) units installed to run traffic signals have been stolen this year. Insurance claims have risen to R4.4-million owing to accident damage arising from stolen road infrastructure and people falling into open manholes. 
	“We are calling on our stakeholders to collaborate with us in putting an end to this direct sabotage of our operations and our mandate in delivering services. The safety of our residents and all roads users is paramount, scrap dealers aiding and abetting in the sale and purchase of stolen road-related infrastructure will be prosecuted,” he stated. 
	Mashaba further appealed to City of Johannesburg residents to support his efforts in combating crime by reporting acts of theft and vandalism to the city’s crime hotline and the Johannesburg Road Agency’s Infrastructure Protection Unit.
	
	Meanwhile, Mashaba also highlighted that illegal mining, which uses explosives affects highways, Transnet bulk fuel supply and Sasol gas pipelines travelling across the city, causing further financial woes for the city. “The use of explosives has now compromised public safety, with increased reports of tremors and illegal mining activity reported in close proximity to pipelines carrying gas and fuel.” 
	The City of Johannesburg is exploring additional measures to fast-track the persecution of criminals and is looking to roll out more municipal courts. 