
	From Creamer Media in Johannesburg, this is the Real Economy Report. 
	Sashnee Moodley: A new control tower and fire station complex was recently opened at Lanseria International Airport. Keith campbell was there. 
	Keith Campbell:
	The privately-owned Lanseria International Airport is located north west of Johannesburg and south west of Pretoria. It recently opened a new control tower and fire station complex. Airport CEO Rampa Rammopo explains the importance of the new complex with regard to the airport’s expansion programme. 
	Lanseria International Airport CEO Rampa Rammopo: 
	
	Keith Campbell: The new complex will bring benefits both for the air traffic controllers, or ATCs, and for the firefighters, as Airport Chief Operating Officer Gavin Sayce explains. 
	Airport Chief Operating Officer Gavin Sayce: 
	Sashnee Moodley:
	Inspection, testing, verification and certification multinational SGS and Eskom have partnered to train 24 local youths at Eskom’s Grootvlei power station in in Mpumalanga in 12 subjects related to safety, health and quality. Schalk Burger has the story. 
	Schalk Burger:
	Integrity and trust are necessary conditions for the sustainability of businesses, says SGS South Africa sustainability team leader and strategic transformation manager Viviane Lokale. 
	The students that complete the International Institute of Risk and Safety Management-approved course will strengthen Eskom, or the companies that employ them, by fulfilling detailed, technical and international-grade inspection and safety compliance roles. 
	The training will improve the success of businesses they join and, thereby, the sustainability of jobs created while improving safety, health and risk compliance, confirms Eskom Grootvlei maintenance manager Lourence Chauke. 
	Skills that support the sustainability and success of formal businesses in an ecosystem, such as within electricity generation supply chains and services, are relevant and valuable, Lokale emphasises. 
	Vivian Lokale details some of the key elements of the safety, health and quality training. 
	SGS South Africa sustainability team leader and strategic transformation manager Viviane Lokale:
	  
	Schalk Burger:
	Lourence Chauke details some of the key aspects of the training. 
	Eskom Grootvlei maintenance manager Lourence Chauke: 
	
	Sashnee Moodley:
	That’s Creamer Media’s Real Economy Report. Join us again next week for more news and insight into South Africa’s real economy. 