
	The Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA) has completed the R39-million rehabilitation of the infrastructure of Port Nolloth on the north-western coast of South Africa. 
	The infrastructure upgrade was carried out by contractor Steffanuti Stocks Marine over 14 months, with 25% of the contract value ploughed back into local companies – predominantly black-, women- and youth-owned businesses – in line with Transnet’s Supplier Development requirements. 
	Port of Cape Town port manager Mpumi Dweba-Kwetana, whose portfolio includes Port Nolloth, said the port would continue to serve as a support facility to the fishing and offshore mining industries. 
	“The completion of this rehabilitation project is part of a longer-term plan to develop Port Nolloth into a port that offers greater economic opportunities for the people of the area. It is one of several projects TNPA is proud to be fulfilling as an implementing agency in the marine transport and manufacturing delivery unit of the South African government’s Operation Phakisa: Oceans Economy initiative,” she said. 
	The purpose of Operation Phakisa is to fast-track and unlock investments across South Africa’s maritime sector, or blue economy.  
	Dweba-Kwetana said the improved port infrastructure would better enable Port Nolloth to support offshore activities. 
	De Beers Group Services has a five-year lease agreement to use the port as an offshore supply base for conducting diamond prospecting activity in Namibia, with Smit Amandla supply vessels stationed at the port, used to transfer supplies to De Beers’ offshore prospecting vessels. 
	The port’s infrastructure comprises an L-shaped concrete deck on pile jetty with a 67 m landing quay and a useable area of 1 450 m2.  
	Work completed since August 2016 included refurbishment of the jetty structure, refurbishment or replacement of concrete where required, refurbishment of quay infrastructure, replacement of quayside fender systems and revetment works to address erosion of the shore line. 
	Port Nolloth is also one of six development nodes identified by the South African government to be developed over time into a sustainable coastal and marine tourism destination under Operation Phakisa. 