
	JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) – The share price of Sibanye-Stillwater rose quickly and sharply on Wednesday on the news that the precious metals company had moved to create an industry-leading surface mining partnership with gold tailings retreatment company DRDGold. 
	The proposed transaction, which saw the share price of Sibanye lift 3.65% to a 59c-higher R18.73 a share by early afternoon and the share price of DRDGold decline by a slight 0.81% to a 4c-lower R4.92c a share, involves Sibanye vending selected West Rand Tailings Retreatment Project (WRTRP) surface processing assets and tailings storage facilities into DRDGold for a 38% slice of the JSE-listed surface mining company’s ordinary share capital, which as at Tuesday was valued at R1.3-billion. 
	As Sibanye is not a company that holds minority stakes in other companies, it has an option to increase its ownership of DRDGold to 50.1% within 24 months, by acquiring additional shares at a 10% discount. 
	The deal, which commits DRDGold to develop the WRTRP in phases, virtually doubles DRDGold’s gold reserves, gives it immediate access to facilities that can generate cash for it in a matter of months, cuts overhead unit costs through increased production and puts an end to DRDGold’s single asset operating risk. 
	DRDGold will be responsible for bringing the WRTRP to fruition, with the capital raise not expected to dilute the shareholdings of both sets of investors. 
	The deal is about Sibanye establishing a relationship with the separately listed DRDGold to benefit from its well-honed skillsets that will be used to pursue tailings retreatment opportunities in gold and other commodities in South Africa and internationally. 
	“The sky’s the limit in global tailings retreatment,” Sibanye CEO Neal Froneman told an investor, analyst and media conference attended by Creamer Media’s Mining Weekly Online. 
	Cash-flush DRDGold estimates the development of the WRTRP will require R2-billion in capital, a sum it is able to finance using cash and debt and which will not require it to go to the market to raise equity capital. 
	The gold reserves involved total 3.82-million ounces and the selected assets that DRDGold will acquire are the active Driefontein 4 tailings storage facility, the operating WRTRP pilot plant, and land required for future development of the regional tailings storage facility. 
	Neither the Cooke nor the Ezulwini gold and uranium tailings treatment plants form part of the deal. 
	“This is an investment in DRDGold and a future tailings company that’s going to have a very exciting growth trajectory and we realise R1.3-billion of value immediately, which is only a portion of the total value of the West Rand Tailings Retreatment Project,” said Froneman. 
	Ridding the environment of tailings dumps will release 1 400 ha of formerly highly productive land for agricultural development and have regional and national benefits for the fiscus. 
	DRDGold CEO Niël Pretorius outlined how the company had evolved from being an asset valued at R80-million to one the market now priced at R2.2-billion-plus, off which it was now able to leverage R1.3-billion to acquire the WRTRP. 
	In that time, skillsets, procedures and protocols had been developed to enable DRDGold to “treat stuff that others had thrown away” at a rate and manner that generates sustainable benefits for all of it stakeholders. 
	This company, which really should have closed ten years ago, provides ongoing employment for 2 000 people and puts R2.5-billion worth of revenue into the South African economy every year that stimulates R25-billion worth of economic activity a year. 
	“This is dust that’s turned into gold, that’s turned into money, that’s flowing into South Africa,” Pretorius said, adding that the company’s 2016 dividend yield was the second highest on the JSE. 
	The WRTRP is a large-scale, long-life surface tailings retreatment that will retreat material with a 35% higher gold content than the material treated by DRDGold at its flagship Ergo metallurgical plant on the East Rand, which, with the Knights plant in Germiston, is arguably the world’s largest gold surface tailings retreatment facility. 
	The transaction, which is expected to close in the second quarter of the 2018 calendar year, will increase DRDGold’s gold reserves from 2.99-million ounces to 6.81-million ounces. 
	The WRTRP assets take in the decommissioned Driefontein 3 and 5, Kloof 1, Ventersdorp North and South and Libanon dumps; the currently active Driefontein 1 and 2, Kloof 2 and Leeudoring tailings dams, which are to be transferred once decommissioned; the currently active Driefontein 4 tailings storage facility and the Driefontein 2 and 3 surface plants. 
	The eventual goal is to set up infrastructure and to mine the entire resource in two phases. In the first phase, the plan is to upgrade the Driefontein 2 and 3 surface plants to treat between 400 000 t and 600 000 t a month from a single source. 
	In the second phase, the plan is to develop a central, high-volume processing facility and new deposition site capable of processing at least one-million tonnes of tailings material a month, with a blend of material from different combinations of sources so as to produce a flat, smooth grade profile over life-of-mine. 