From Creamer Media in Johannesburg, this is the Real Economy Report. Sashnee Moodley: Verimark, starting from humble beginnings 40 years ago, has successfully transitioned from seller and distributor of direct response television products into a diversified retail corporate leveraging an ever-expanding platform. Natasha Odendaal tells us more. Natasha Odendaal: Verimark not only has an extensive retail footprint across 79 Verimark Direct outlets and in excess of 1 700 individual stores in major retail giants, but now the group has set its sights on reviving its international growth strategy, as well as developing further diversification, including ecommerce. Verimark CEO Michael van Straaten tells us more. Verimark CEO Michael van Straaten: Sashnee Moodley: Other news making headlines: Indaba critical for policy engagement Economic growth &lsquo;well below&rsquo; govt expectations, says Cesa survey And, Ramaphosa moves to reclaim &lsquo;radical economic transformation&rsquo; from those &#39;misusing&#39; term With the policy environment changing as a result of global and local competition, consulting firm Cova Advisory believes that this year&rsquo;s Manufacturing Indaba can play a significant role to assist industry in staying abreast of the changes. Cova Advisory joint MD Duane Newman Barely missing a recession, South Africa saw its slowest economic growth rate in 2016 since the 2009 recession, when economic growth contracted, according to Cesa&rsquo;s Biannual Economic and Capacity Survey for July to December. Economist Elsie Snyman Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has moved, just days before the convening of the ANC&rsquo;s policy conference, to reclaim the phrase &lsquo;radical economic transformation&rsquo; from those who he said were misusing and misrepresenting it as part of a paid-for &ldquo;publicity offensive&rdquo;. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa&nbsp; Sashnee Moodley: That&rsquo;s Creamer Media&rsquo;s Real Economy Report. Join us again next week for more news and insight into South Africa&rsquo;s real economy.