The prospect of a vibrant, sustainable blue economy is on South Africa&rsquo;s doorstep, and the country&rsquo;s Operation Phakisa oceans economy plans have progressed considerably, Environmental Affairs Minister Dr Edna Molewa said on Wednesday. To date, Operation Phakisa has stimulated some R17.7-billion in investment in the five initially identified areas, namely offshore oil and gas, aquaculture, marine manufacturing and transport, oceans governance and tourism. South Africa, with an ocean space greater than its land territory, had earmarked the ocean to promote economic growth and boost job creation, she told delegates at the Oceans Conference in New York. The economic potential of South Africa&rsquo;s oceans, is such that it is are estimated to have the potential to contribute up to R177-billion to gross domestic product by 2033, compared with R54-billion in 2010, and to increase the number of jobs from 316 000 to just over one-million. &ldquo;There is high accelerated economic activity in and around oceans, increasing population movement towards the oceans, increasing consumption of marine resources, as well as a growing need for new resources, energy and minerals,&rdquo; she said. South Africa has an advantage by virtue of its geographical positioning, and is &ldquo;globally recognised&rdquo; as unique and a hotspot of biodiversity boasting over 10 000 marine species; however, the implementation of Sustainable Development Goal 14 will be key to its sustainable development. This will mean addressing the developmental objectives of reducing marine pollution; managing, protecting, conserving and restoring marine and coastal ecosystems; increasing scientific knowledge; and minimising and addressing ocean acidification. The region is at a unique crossroads, Molewa said, noting the significant risk in the form of environmental and socioeconomic challenges attached to oceans economy development. &ldquo;The Atlantic, Southern and Indian oceans&rsquo; fishing grounds are among the healthiest worldwide and coastal tourism is among the biggest income earners for many countries. &ldquo;Ports and other coastal infrastructure are growing in importance and the region is crossed by some of the world&rsquo;s main shipping lanes. Emerging prospects of oil and gas development offer unprecedented opportunities for growth,&rdquo; Molewa added. However, marine pollution, roughly 80% of which stems from land-based activities, is a challenge and more effort should be focused on tackling the land-derived pollution. &ldquo;Considering the target on reducing marine pollution, we realise that tackling land-based sources of marine pollution will require the challenging, but necessary collaboration with a variety of sectors and user groups. We have also optimised our efforts to handle this important matter through our regional partnerships,&rdquo; she said.