GABORONE (miningweekly.com) &ndash; Renewable energy, which was being referred to as a subsidy-pushed fringe technology as recently as last year, is very rapidly ousting coal, which could present a blow to Botswana, which has been pinning its hopes on coal replacing the static diamond industry as its new platform for economic growth. &ldquo;Renewable energy is just about the only thing being invested in,&rdquo; Fieldstone Africa MD Jonathan Berman told the first day of the heavily coal-oriented Botswana Resource Sector Conference on Monday. He emphasised that Fieldstone was in no way anti coal and that the company was delighted to still be working in the coal and thermal space, which included Exxaro Resources&rsquo; Thabametsi coal-fired power project, in South Africa, and a liquid fuels plant, in Zambia. But he noted that it had become increasingly hard to raise finance for coal projects and while the company would get Thabametsi done, he indicated that it had been a close call, owing to financial institutions shying away from funding coal projects. Berman&rsquo;s presentation brought a defensive retort from Shumba Energy chairperson Alan Clegg, who said that renewable energy was a developed country pursuit, which did not fulfil the developmental and employment needs of Africa, which the Botswana Stock Exchange-listed company has chosen as the place to launch coal mines and then coal-fired power stations with strategic partners. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re in Africa, where the driver is not only for energy, but for energy to deliver something else,&rdquo; Clegg told the conference attended by Mining Weekly Online. Shumba would be active in Botswana, and would be involved in coal, a mineral that could also be &ldquo;green&rdquo;, through the lowering of emissions from coal-fired power stations. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s not just assume that coal is dirty,&rdquo; added Clegg. While there would be a place for renewables, they were not the future, as nuclear would follow coal and create demand for uranium. However, Berman had earlier pointed to the speed that had characterised Rwanda&rsquo;s first solar independent power producer project, which was funded in six months and then built in six months. He also drew attention to South Korea making an energy u-turn away from coal. No matter what views were held on global warming, Berman made the point that renewable energy was also being promoted on health grounds. He also identified solar as an obvious renewable energy generation opportunity for Botswana, which is a signatory to the Paris accord on climate change. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s a very bright future for new energy technologies,&rdquo; Berman said, adding financing had shifted towards renewables, which were lowering electricity tariffs.