Dual-listed Datatec has sold 100% of its technology distribution division Westcon-Comstor North America and Latin America operations and 10% of Westcon International, to NYSE-listed Synnex, for $800-million and $30-million respectively. The aggregate $830-million consideration comprises payment of $630-million on closing &ndash; $500-million in Synnex shares and $130-million in cash &ndash; with an additional $200-million cash earn-out payment subject to Westcon Americas&rsquo;s performance in the 2018 financial year. &ldquo;There is strong industrial logic for the combination of the two businesses, which are highly complementary in North America. Westcon-Comstor&rsquo;s specialisation and expertise in security, unified communications and collaboration and networking combined with Synnex&rsquo;s significant North American presence, extensive product line and large customer base will provide for greater scale in services and capabilities for its partners,&rdquo; explained Datatec CEO Jens Montanana. The information and communications technology group believed the move would provide significant opportunity for growth across all of Westcon-Comstor and benefit from Synnex&rsquo;s significant scale. &ldquo;The transaction also realises value for our shareholders as a result of the strategic relationship with Synnex through its shareholding in Westcon International &ndash; a business which is yet to benefit from the enterprise resource planning (ERP) and business process outsourcing (BPO) transformation programmes currently being implemented,&rdquo; he added. Westcon International, which comprises the Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific operations, had been hit financially and operationally across its operations by the roll-out of the SAP ERP system and BPO, which was aimed at improving operating efficiencies and modernising its global information technology systems and commercial supply chain. &ldquo;The board does not, therefore, consider it an optimal time to sell Westcon International but, with Synnex as a partner, the transaction enables Datatec to focus on improving the financial performance of Westcon International, which will enhance its value in the longer term,&rdquo; said Montanana. The 10% sale also enables Westcon International to complete its transformation process and improve operating efficiency. In addition, there is significant potential for growth in the value of Datatec&rsquo;s investment in the technology distribution sector through the 10.25% holding in Synnex and the operational synergies of the enlarged business. However, Synnex has the right to opt to pay cash for the entire transaction, instead of a portion in shares. Synnex also held the option of acquiring a further 10% interest of Westcon International for $30-million within 12 months. Montanana will be appointed to the Synnex board. The transaction, which remained subject to a number of conditions including shareholder and regulatory approvals, is expected to close in the third quarter of this year.