The Grayston pedestrian and cyclist bridge over the M1 dual carriageway is expected to be completed by October, the City of Johannesburg said on Tuesday. With over 10 000 people walking between Alexandra, Wynberg and Sandton central daily, the bridge is part of a 5 km dedicated walking and cycling route that starts in No 3 Square, in Alexandra. The route also intersects with the Watt street Rea Vaya station, adjacent to Pan Africa Mall, which connects Alexandra with the inner city of Johannesburg. &ldquo;The City of Johannesburg is bringing pro-poor high-quality public transport that is safe, affordable and reliable to the people of Alexandra and Sandton, while is making walking and cycling easier, safer and more convenient,&rdquo; said Sandton Central Management District city improvement district manager Elaine Jack. She added that, with Sandton central being one of the country&rsquo;s cosmopolitan centres of trade, ideas, interaction and lifestyle, accessibility was important. &ldquo;Ensuring that people can easily come to work, visit, stay, shop or be entertained in Sandton central is something we take seriously. We strive to provide an exceptional experience,&rdquo; she highlighted. Meanwhile, the Marlboro Rea Vaya bus and pedestrian bridge was also nearing completion and due to launch in September. The bridge is already open for pedestrians and Rea Vaya buses will have exclusive use of the bridge when the Rea Vaya Phase 1C operations start in October 2018. The bridge will enable buses and pedestrians to move swiftly from the Johannesburg central business district through Wynberg and Alexandra over the M1 and into Sandton central. Improvements to the Zandspruit bridge have also opened a former bottleneck for private vehicles at a popular access point to Sandton central. Widening the Zandspruit bridge and Katherine street to the M1 highway Marlboro Drive off- and on-ramps has already improved traffic mobility between Sandton central and the M1 Marlboro off- and on-ramps. City of Johannesburg Transport MMC Nonhlanhla Makhuba said the new infrastructure addressed the &ldquo;ill effects of the past&rdquo;, with the city aiming to implement programmes that &ldquo;stitched the city together&rdquo;. &ldquo;[This] ensures that economic opportunities and services are closer to the people. This allows people to live, work, play and pray in a much more cost-effective and efficient manner,&rdquo; she added.