From Creamer Media in Johannesburg, this is the Real Economy Report. Sashnee Moodley: To produce gold as cheaply as possible, South African gold miner Pan African Resources is undergoing a significant tailings retreatment project at its Evander mine, in Mpumalanga, which will result in the construction of a R6.35-billion tailings retreatment plant. David Oliveira tells us more. David Oliveira: During a visit to the mine in April, media were shown the future location of the plant, with construction starting in the third quarter of this year and to be completed by the third quarter of 2018. Commercial production to is expected to start the following quarter. Pan African group mining engineer Bert van den Berg explained that the first phase of the project would entail the treating of tailings from the Kinross mine dump. Pan African group mining engineer Bert van den Berg: David Oliveira: The 58-million-ton Kinross dam is being treated as part of the Evander Tailings Retreatment Plant (ETRP) project, with a rate of 200 000 t/m and the slimes being processed at the Kinross mine. Head grades produced from the mine are currently about 0.32 g/t at recoveries of between 42% and 50%. Pan African group mining engineer Bert van den Berg &nbsp; David Oliveira: Phases 2 and 3 of the Elikhulu project, which will result in the treatment of the Bracken/Leslie and Winkelhaak dumps respectively, are scheduled to start in the fourth quarter of 2021 and the third quarter of 2026 respectively. Once completed, Elikhulu will process one-million tons a month of tailings. The project is expected to recover about 689 000 oz of gold and will create 245 jobs once the plant reaches full capacity. Pan African group mining engineer Bert van den Berg &nbsp; David Oliveira: Meanwhile, Van den Berg pointed out that the next &ldquo;organic underground growth&rdquo; project at Evander was likely to be the 2010 payshoot, which has an estimated resource of about 2.2-million ounces at a grade of about 13 g/t. Drilling of the payshoot started under previous owner Harmony Gold, which expected to complete the programme by 2010. Pan African is continuing drilling at the offshoot, having reached a depth of just below 1.5 km at the time of the media visit. Sashnee Moodley: Other news making headlines: Planned infrastructure development presents milling opportunities And, Quad bikes and side-by-side vehicles used for rough terrains The planned and ongoing infrastructure development taking place locally and on the rest of the continent presents opportunities for securing work for civil and road infrastructure projects, says road milling company Road Milling and Sweeping. Road Milling and Sweeping GM Lesley Kafka &nbsp; Distributed in South Africa by equipment supplier Smith Power Equipment (SPE), single seater quads and side-by-sides &ndash; two-and three-seater vehicles &ndash; are used for robust tasks. Smith Power Equipment Polaris and Linhai product range national sales manager Mark Chittenden &nbsp; Sashnee Moodley: That&rsquo;s Creamer Media&rsquo;s Real Economy Report. Join us again next week for more news and insight into South Africa&rsquo;s real economy.