The Lesotho Highlands Water Commission (LHWC) has embarked on a countrywide roadshow to update the construction industry and other stakeholders on the implementation of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP), highlighting challenges facing the project, the scope of work ahead under Phase 2, and the expected duration of the programme. Addressing delegates at a media briefing in Johannesburg on Monday, LHWP Phase 2 divisional manager Tente Tente noted that the project was ready to advertise tenders for Phase 2 construction contracts. Tente encouraged small, medium-sized and microenterprises (SMMEs) tendering for this next phase to partner with bigger companies or form joint ventures, so that skills and technology transfer can take place. He added that the LHWC was under strict mandate to ensure that there are equal opportunities for Lesotho and South African nationals in implementing Phase 2.&nbsp;&nbsp; &ldquo;We did commission SMME studies [on] the implementation of Phase 1 and are aware there can be improvements,&rdquo; he said. Construction on the LHWP is set to begin next year. There are currently 20 construction contracts. Tente stated that most of the advanced infrastructure work would be procured in the first half of next year so that it could be completed in 2019. Pointing out that the LHWP had two major components, namely a water transfer and hydropower component, Tente explained that the Lesotho government was responsible for funding hydropower and that South Africa was responsible for the water transfer component, which was slightly ahead of schedule. &ldquo;Since the official launch of Phase 2 in 2013, the main focus has been on the procurement of consultants to design the advanced infrastructure, which includes roads, bridges, accommodation, power and telecommunications networks, as well as designing the major works &ndash; the Polihali dam and the [Polhihali-Katse] tunnel.&rdquo;&nbsp;&nbsp; Tente added that the consultants would also supervise the construction of the designed structures on the engineering side. &ldquo;We are also procuring a large number of consultants on the design and implementation of the social environmental programmes,&rdquo; Tente said. He pointed out that the commission wanted to implement Phase 2 of the project with high levels of improved service delivery. &ldquo;There are certain critical procurement rules that must be strictly adhered to,&rdquo; he said. LHWP PHASE 2 The R22.9-billion Phase 2 of the LHWP will be implemented in terms of two distinct components: a water delivery system to augment the delivery of water to South Africa and a hydropower generation system, including the Polihali dam and the Polhihali-Katse tunnel. The Polihali dam will be built downstream of the confluence of the Senqu and Khubelu rivers and will be a 163.5-m-high concrete-faced rockfill embankment dam wall. The crest length will be 915 m, with a full supply level of 2 075 m above sea level. A 49.5-m-high saddle dam and a side channel spillway will also be built. The 38.2-km-long, 5-m-diameter Polihali-Katse tunnel will be used to transfer water from the Polihali reservoir to the Katse reservoir. Water will be abstracted from the Polihali reservoir through two separate concrete bell-mouth intakes on the western side of the Polihali reservoir, in the Khubelo river, 3 km upstream of the confluence with the Senqu. Where possible, the existing infrastructure constructed in Phase I will be used.