Global supplier of solar tracking solutions for ground-mounted photovoltaic (PV) plants Exosun and South Africa-based engineering, procurement and construction company Lesedi Nuclear Services have entered into a partnership to provide localised solar tracking systems in South Africa. &ldquo;Lesedi will deliver the support needed to our customers and will ensure plant design, tracker manufacturing and installation of Exosun&rsquo;s single-axis tracker, offering our customers the highest possible level of local content, while also providing a high level of broad-based black economic empowerment compliance,&rdquo; Exosun CEO Fran&ccedil;ois M&eacute;nard noted in a press statement released on Wednesday. He added that Lesedi would offer all the services covering the full life cycle of a PV plant project. Since establishing its presence on the African continent in 2015 through the registration of its Cape Town subsidiary, Exosun has been active in business development, understanding the capabilities of the local market and developing its manufacturing capacity in view of upcoming projects in the sub-Saharan Africa region. In 2016, Exosun secured its first project in Namibia. This success has enabled it to mobilise its qualified South African suppliers for this first project. &ldquo;After months of extensive research to develop the best strategy . . . to benefit our prospects and clients, we have found Lesedi to be a strong reputable industry stakeholder. Our complementary approach will ensure the success of our customers,&rdquo; M&eacute;nard stated. Lesedi CEO Francis Carruthers noted that the strategic partnership is complementary to Lesedi&rsquo;s expanding market offerings in the renewables sector in Africa and will ensure that the company achieves the highest degree of local content. &ldquo;Lesedi, over the years, has demonstrated that local content can be achieved across the entire value chain of projects it is engaged in and this partnership with Exosun will achieve the same again,&rdquo; he stated.