JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) &ndash; The Cabinet this week endorsed the appointment of Advocate Thabo S Mokoena as the new director-general of the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR), a position that has been vacant for more than a year, and also approved the gazetting of a draft mine water management policy&nbsp;for public comment, as well as spatial transformation plans for five mining towns. Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane on Thursday welcomed the Cabinet&rsquo;s endorsement of Mokoena, who holds a law degree from the University of the Western Cape as well as a postgraduate diploma in law. He will commence his duties in April, when he will take over from David Msiza, who has been acting director-general. Former director-general, Dr Thibedi Ramontja, resigned at the end of 2015 after four years of service and at the time the department said a new director-general would be appointed &ldquo;in due course&rdquo;, which has taken all of 14 months. The mine-water policy draft holds parties potentially liable for negative effects and damages of acid mine drainage, related pollution and any other negative impacts that can be related to it. The policy also seeks to propose mechanisms that mining houses should explore to better manage their water. Cabinet was also briefed on the implementation of relevant findings from its Australian mining industry benchmarking study tour of August 2015, by the Inter-Ministerial Committee for the Revitalisation of Distressed Mining Communities. The study tour was premised on comparing the policy, legislative frameworks and practices of mining companies in Australia, Chile, South Africa and Zambia. Aspects of progress include partnerships between government and mining companies in delivering decent housing and living conditions for mineworkers and community members. A review of mining companies&#39; water treatment plants is being conducted to assess the possibility of infrastructure partnerships. Spatial transformation plans for mining towns has been finalised for five municipalities. Catalytic economic development projects are being implemented in labour sending areas, with an emphasis on agriculture and fast-tracking of increased access to medical assessments for former mineworkers, community members and current mineworkers. The Department of Health is now also permitted to work closely with the DME and other partners in the provision of supportive services to former mineworkers in dealing with occupational diseases, with a view to reducing and preventing mine related occupational health challenges. The thumbs up was given to the Department of Labour and the DME studying the different Australian mine commuting models to assist long-haul South African migrant mineworkers to commute home more frequently. A request was made for the Department of Human Settlements to fast-track the implementation of integrated human settlements projects in collaboration with mining companies.