From Creamer Media in Johannesburg, this is the Real Economy Report. Sashnee Moodley: Information technology multinational Oracle last month celebrated the tenth year of the fully digital high school, which it built in partnership with the Gauteng Department of Education. Schalk Burger has the details. Schalk Burger: The Ponelopele Oracle Secondary School, in Kaalfontein, Midrand, is a no-fees school in the heart of the township and has 1 300 pupils and 60 staff. It serves as a model for community engagement and effective corporate social investment, Minister Motshekga said in February. The ten-year anniversary event was attended by Oracle executive VP Dorian Daley, Oracle South Africa MD Kholiwe Makhohliso and Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga, who was the Gauteng Education MEC when the project was initiated in 2003. The school opened its doors early in 2007. The school is supported by Oracle and its employees and executives volunteer their time to build the school and provide mentorship and coaching for the children. It provides teaching of core, cultural and technical subjects, but does so with state-of-the-art equipment and the latest pedagogy with an emphasis on science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics. Oracle executive VP Dorian Daley explains the driver behind Oracle&rsquo;s involvement. Oracle executive VP Dorian Daley: Schalk Burger: In 2013, the school produced the top matric pupil of the Gauteng province, which is also the smallest, but most populous province in the country. Praise Ndebele is currently in his fourth year of actuarial sciences at the University of Cape Town. Minister Motshekga explains how the school, and specifically the quality of matriculants that it produces, such as Praise, is helping to change the mindset of children in the townships how education can change their lives. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga: Sashnee Moodley: Other news making headlines this week: Aveng to seek shareholder backing for sale of Grinaker-LTA stake to Kutana in March And, New panel established to guide Gauteng on infrastructure projects Aveng will seek shareholder approval before the end of March for the sale of a 51% beneficial interest in Aveng Grinaker-LTA to Kutana Construction, a black economic empowerment company. Aveng CEO Kobus Verster: The Gauteng provincial government has established an economic advisory panel to advise it on the roll-out of social and economic infrastructure projects planned for the next two years. Gauteng Premier David Makhura &nbsp; Sashnee Moodley: That&rsquo;s Creamer Media&rsquo;s Real Economy Report. Join us again next week for more news and insight into South Africa&rsquo;s real economy.