With the Water Research Commission (WRC) predicting that South Africa will require 17% more water by the year 2030 and with the country&rsquo;s water supplies almost fully allocated, it has become even more pressing to change peoples&rsquo; attitude towards water use and effectively manage water demand, engineering consulting firm GIBB says. The challenges around water also hamper new enterprises&#39; access to water licences and place a dampener on future economic growth, says GIBB integrated infrastructure services GM Sean Molloy. Currently, up to 50% of water supplied to South African cities cannot be accounted for. This varies from between 30% and 50% in the metropolitan areas and between 40% and 60% in smaller municipalities, amounting to a yearly loss of about R7-billion worth of water as indicated in government&rsquo;s Nine-Point Plan for economic growth. This unaccounted water use is largely as a result of water leaks and unmetered water use. According to the WRC, while South Africa&rsquo;s post-1994 water legislation has been heralded as pioneering, there have been challenges in implementation, largely owing to legacy issues as a result of outdated water laws, as well as the growing demands on South Africa&rsquo;s existing water resources, intensified by population growth, rapid urbanisation, economic development and greater demand for higher levels of service.&nbsp; However, Molloy highlighted that there are solutions to South Africa&rsquo;s water crisis, but that these require committed collaboration between government and the private sector. &ldquo;Reducing public demand for water requires increasing the price for excessive water use and educating the public on water-saving techniques. While government has introduced initiatives to instill a water saving mindset among South Africans, this does not seem to have had the desired outcome and efforts need to be redoubled, preferably with the help of the private sector,&rdquo; said Molloy. He added that South Africa could look to Botswana&rsquo;s project Somarela Thothi for a workable public-private partnership (PPP) model. The programme was initiated in March 2015 to reduce water losses during Gaborone&rsquo;s worst drought in 32 years. A partnership was also formed between the German Development Corporation (GIZ), Water Utilities Corporation and First National Bank Botswana Foundation with the aim of reducing water demand by implementing social and technical water loss reduction initiatives. Further, Molloy called for a renewed focus on conserving water already in the system. &ldquo;Leaks occur in the bulk and internal water distribution systems, as well as water systems on private properties. One of the most effective ways to reduce leaks is to reduce the overall pressure within the network and conduct a leak detection and repair programme of the water distribution system. &ldquo;In addition, it makes economic sense to repair leaks within households. Many households do not have the means or expertise to maintain their housing water system. There are successful examples of initiatives to address this, which also create multiple employment opportunities,&rdquo; he stated. One such initiative by government has been the ongoing training of 15 000 artisans and plumbers to repair leaking taps in their communities, with the first intake of 3 000 trainees recruited in the 2015/16 financial year. &ldquo;Importantly, applying just one or two of the above-mentioned solutions will not be as effective as implementing all solutions together. To do this, the public sector might consider kick-starting the process with a three-year programme, calling for private sector involvement. &ldquo;To achieve a sustainable process, government would need to commit to allocating the savings achieved to the ongoing implementation of the programme,&rdquo; Molloy pointed out. He added that, ultimately, South Africans cannot afford to ignore the country&rsquo;s most threatened resource and government cannot bear the water burden alone. &ldquo;Water scarcity is a significant societal challenge that needs to be shared between governments, nongovernmental organisations, the private sector and society as a whole,&rdquo; he noted.