Six private-sector proposals for the development of 6 ha of city-owned land in the Foreshore Freeway precinct &ndash; located under and between the existing and unfinished highways between the city&rsquo;s northern edge and the Cape Town harbour &ndash; are on display at the city&rsquo;s civic centre for public comment. The comments will be collated by the multidisciplinary bid evaluation committee, as part of the extensive four-month evaluation process that will result in the selection of the preferred bidders for the development. The evaluation process will also include the assessment of key components of the project, including the viability of the transport solution, the provision of affordable housing and the financial model. &ldquo;We &ndash; the city, residents and developers &ndash; now have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to reshape one of the most valuable, vital and iconic precincts in the Mother City. &ldquo;The three unfinished highways on the western, central and eastern side of the Foreshore Freeway precinct are almost as iconic as Table Mountain itself,&rdquo; Cape Town transport and urban development MCM councillor Brett Herron quipped on Monday. He noted that the city would like to see the planning and approval processes concluded within two years. Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille added that the precinct formed part of one of the city&rsquo;s five transit-oriented development (TOD) projects, promoting economic and residential development located closer to transport corridors. &ldquo;The TOD strategic framework will reverse the legacy of apartheid spatial planning and redress the injustices of the past by stopping long travelling distances and urban sprawl by bringing people closer to residential and work opportunities,&rdquo; she pointed out. The four other TOD developments are located in Paardevlei, Athlone, Bellville and Philippi. &ldquo;No mayor has ever attempted to deal with the unfinished bridges and I would like it to be part of my legacy,&rdquo; De Lille highlighted.