The Department of Trade and Industry (the DTI) on Thursday said a budget of about R50-million has been approved to address the first phase of the revitalisation programme of the Ekandustria Industrial Park. The Deputy Director-General for Special Economic Zones and Economic Transformation at the DTI, Sipho Zikode said the revitalisation programme has four-phases. Zikode was speaking during the joint visit by the Parliamentary Select Committees on Trade and International Relations, and Economic and Business Development that took place at the Ekandustria Industrial Park in Bronkhorstspruit. The visit was part of the two-day oversight tour undertaken by the parliamentarians. &ldquo;The R50-million budget will address the installation of the security fence, the refurbishment of the water treatment plant and the repair of the roofs which have since grown into a state of dilapidation,&rdquo; said Zikode. He said that a contractor had already been appointed and was on site. &ldquo;The conditional assessment has been done and the results of the assessment are going to inform the four-phase approach,&rdquo; said Zikode. He said that the protocol agreement, which clearly specifies the role and responsibilities of each stakeholder, has already been signed. Chairperson of the Select Committee on Trade and International Relations, Eddy Makue, said that from the reports received it was evident that there were a range of benefits to be gained by companies that operate within the facility. &ldquo;Operators within this facility stand to benefit from electricity rebates and a reduction in rental and transportation costs for delivering goods outside to the broader market,&rdquo; said Makue. &ldquo;We were also introduced on challenges of ageing infrastructure that are currently affecting the facility but we note with appreciation the revitalisation efforts that are underway.&rdquo; He said the Select Committees was on an assignment to interrogate the progress, developments and challenges experienced since the park was designated for revitalisation as part of the DTI&rsquo;s Industrial Park Revitalisation Programme. The Ekandustria Industrial Park is recognised as a catalyst for broader economic and industrial development in the region and it is envisaged that once revitalised, it will enhance its investor occupancy rate, drive retention and expansion and also contribute to the economy of its surrounding areas and nationally.