US car maker Ford has announced the appointment of Casper Kruger as Ford Motor Company Sub-Saharan Africa (FMCSA) region MD, as from April 1. Current president and CEO Jeff Nemeth will take up a new position at Ford as part of his planned return to the US on July 1, states the company. Nemeth oversaw the Kuga crisis that made headlines in December and January, and in which more than 40 1.6-litre Kuga vehicles caught fire, leading Ford to issue a recall in January. A number of market commentators have questioned the manner in which Ford handled the matter. Under Nemeth&rsquo;s leadership, however, FMCSA also increased production at the Silverton plant from around 28 000 vehicles in 2011, to more than 86 000 vehicles in 2016. This dramatic growth followed FMCSA clinching a contract from its parent company for the production and export of the new Ranger bakkie to 148 countries. The company also now builds and exports the Everest sports-utility vehicle to the sub-Saharan African market. Ford&#39;s market share in South Africa has doubled since 2009. Nemeth also served as chairperson of the African Association of Automotive Manufacturers (AAAM). The AAAM champions local vehicle production in Africa. Kruger&rsquo;s appointment is the first time a South African will lead the local Ford operation since it became a subsidiary of its parent company in 2000. Samcor transitioned into Ford of Southern Africa in 2000, under the leadership of Marcos Oliviera. He was followed by a string of appointees, also from abroad, namely Deborah Coleman, Bob Graziano and Hal Feder, and finally Nemeth, who took over the reins in 2009. The US car maker expanded its Southern African businesses into sub-Saharan Africa during Nemeth&rsquo;s tenure. Nemeth&rsquo;s seven-year stint at FMCSA is an uncharacteristically long stay for any overseas leader at a local auto maker, with the standard tenure three to four years. Kruger&rsquo;s appointment brings knowledge of one of Ford&rsquo;s biggest rivals to FMCSA. Ford&rsquo;s Ranger one-ton bakkie has, since its launch in 2011, been increasingly locked in a battle for market dominance with Toyota&rsquo;s Hilux pickup. Kruger is the outgoing vehicle sales and dealer network VP at Toyota South Africa Motors, a position he held from 2014, after previously heading up Toyota&rsquo;s Hino truck division. He also spent 2007 to 2009 as national sales manager and general manager for the Ford brand. &ldquo;Casper&#39;s extensive experience and expertise in sales and marketing, together with his deep experience in working closely with dealers and their customers, will be a great asset in strengthening our retail business in the region with the exceptional range of current products we offer, bolstered by the addition of several exciting new models in the coming years,&rdquo; comments Ford Middle East and Africa president Jacques Brent. Ford says Nemeth will oversee the leadership transition at FMCSA, after which he will return to the US with his family in June, following the completion of his son&rsquo;s school year in South Africa. &nbsp;