BEIJING &ndash; China will cut steel capacity by 50-million tonnes and coal output by more than 150-million tonnes this year, its top economic planner said on Sunday as the world&#39;s No. 2 economy deepens efforts to tackle pollution and curb excess supply. In a work report at the opening of the annual meeting of parliament, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) said it would shut or stop construction of coal-fired power plants with capacity of more than 50-million kilowatts. The pledges are part of Beijing&#39;s years-long push to reduce the share of coal in its energy mix to cut pollution that has choked northern cities and to meet climate-change goals while streamlining unwieldy and over-supplied smoke-stack industries such as steel. Speaking at the opening of parliament on Sunday, Premier Li Keqiang reiterated the government&#39;s plan to ramp up monitoring of heavy industry and crack down on companies and officials that violate air quality rules. &quot;Officials who do a poor job in enforcing the law, knowingly allow environmental violations, or respond inadequately to worsening air quality will be held accountable,&quot; he said. &quot;We will make our skies blue again.&quot; In its report, the NDRC said it would cut energy consumption per capita by 3.4% and curb carbon intensity by 4% this year. By 2020, the government has said it aims to close 100-million to 150-million tonnes of steel capacity and 800-million tonnes of outdated coal capacity. This year&#39;s targets come after the world&#39;s top coal consumer and steel maker far exceeded its 2016 goals to eliminate 250-million tonnes of coal and 45-million tonnes of steel capacity. Much of the steel capacity was already idled and output actually rose 1.2% to 808.4-million tonnes. Coal output fell 9% to 3.64 billion tonnes. COAL LIMIT A new round of capacity cuts was widely expected, although some executives may be disappointed the NDRC did not give an update on the government&#39;s policy that sets a limit on the number of days thermal coal mines can operate each year. Coal prices have rallied in recent months amid speculation the government would reinstate a limit of 276 days. &quot;The smaller target this year is a natural move as the government gradually replaces low-efficiency coal capacity with more efficient ones,&quot; said Li Rong, analyst with consultancy SIA Energy. Speaking on the sidelines of the annual meeting, industry minister Miao Wei said the government would continue to weed out low-grade steel that uses recycled material, which it says is a major source of smog and a safety hazard.