From Creamer Media in Johannesburg, this is the Real Economy Report. Sashnee Moodley: ArcelorMittal South Africa in February officially launched its Isando Distribution Centre, in Germiston, in a long-term initiative to migrate the bulk of domestic final product steel distribution from road to rail. Natasha Odendaal tells us&nbsp; more. Natasha Odendaal: Late in 2016, the first dedicated rail links between AMSA&rsquo;s production facilities in Newcastle and Saldanha and the Isando Distribution Centre steel rail hub on the East Rand had been opened for business with the first transport of steel by rail undertaken. AMSA CEO Wim de Klerk tells us more AMSA CEO Wim de Klerk: &nbsp; Natasha Odendaal: The Isando centre is designed to receive some 700 000 t of steel products a year by rail, primarily from the Newcastle production facility, with the products stockpiled and then distributed by road to customers in Gauteng. AMSA CEO Wim de Klerk &nbsp; Natasha Odendaal: The Isando Distribution Centre aims to fill a gap as the three-year interim distribution solution in Gauteng while a permanent R140-million centre is being built at the Grindrod facility, in Denver. AMSA CEO Wim de Klerk &nbsp; Sashnee Moodley: Other news making headlines this week: Industry needs a trade association to stabilise and grow And, Weapon system controlled from vehicle Establishing a dominant instrumentation and control trade association in South Africa could help the local industry grow and mitigate possible absorption by international competitors. Architects Integrating Industry MD Petrus Klopper &nbsp; Denel Vehicle Systems will deliver four Self-Defence Remotely Operated Weapons systems and eight defence vehicles to the Namibian government by the end of this month for defence purposes and tactical observation. Denel Vehicle Systems business development manager Gerrie van der Merwe &nbsp; Sashnee Moodley: That&rsquo;s Creamer Media&rsquo;s Real Economy Report. Join us again next week for more news and insight into South Africa&rsquo;s real economy.