Diversified mining company South32 on Monday announced that it intends to return an additional $500-million to shareholders, equating to 4.5% of the group&rsquo;s current market capitalisation. The Sydney-, London- and Johannesburg-listed company said in a media release that this dividend-complementing capital management programme will initially take the form of an on-market share buy-back in Australia. South32 chairperson David Crawford said the combination of the company&#39;s operating leverage, strong balance sheet and simple capital management framework is designed to maximise returns and reward shareholders as financial performance improves. The announcement demonstrates the company&#39;s approach to capital management and confidence in its cash generating capacity. South32 CEO Graham Kerr noted that the company&#39;s net cash balance continues to build providing scope to invest in existing operations, pursue value accretive opportunities and return excess capital to shareholders. The $500-million capital management programme increases shareholder returns and follows the recent announcement of the $192-million interim dividend. The timing and number of shares purchased under the on-market share buy-back will be contingent on the prevailing share price and market conditions. The on-market share buy-back is not subject to shareholder approval and will be funded from existing cash reserves. The $500-million capital management programme is expected to be completed over a 12 month period and all alternatives will continue to be assessed to ensure this capital is returned in an efficient manner, the company said in a release to Creamer Media&#39;s Mining Weekly Online. The globally diversified mining and metals company, with operations in Australia, Southern Africa and South America, has a strategy of maximising the potential of its assets and shareholder returns by optimising its existing operations, unlocking their potential and identifying new opportunities to compete for capital.