The City of Johannesburg said on Monday that it had uncovered massive corruption, theft and fraud involving more that R7.5-million stolen from Johannesburg Market, a major centre for the marketing of fresh produce. This comes after head of the City&rsquo;s anti-corruption unit, General Shadrack Sibiya, gave his report on theft from the Johannesburg Market to the City&rsquo;s Executive Mayor Herman Mashaba. The theft allegedly involves as much as R7.54-million In a statement, Mashaba said the report details allegations of how three officials at the market, and a similar number of suppliers, defrauded the City by misrepresenting the amount of various goods received via the market&rsquo;s procurement processes. Mashaba said officials also fraudulently misrepresented the completeness of services rendered by some suppliers, causing substantial financial loss to the market. &ldquo;One such case of misrepresentation cost residents of R1.86-million. In another instance, the market overpaid R5.07-million to a supplier with whom employees of the market had business interests,&rdquo; Mashaba said. &ldquo;The City has opened a case of fraud, theft and corruption against all implicated officials and suppliers with the Hawks.&rdquo; Mashaba said the arrest of those implicated was imminent and officials named in the report would also face the City&rsquo;s internal disciplinary proceedings. The three implicated officials have been suspended pending the outcome of all investigations. Mashaba said despite commendable work done by most of the City&rsquo;s employees, acts of corruption by a few diminished &ldquo;all our combined efforts&rdquo; to deliver services that residents deserve. &ldquo;I implore our honest and dedicated City employees to come together to help us root out corruption so we can show our residents that Johannesburg possesses a truly competent and professional civil service,&rdquo; Mashaba said. &ldquo;I am serious about ensuring this administration delivers the kind of clean governance the residents of Johannesburg have demanded. Our recent adjustment budget and efforts of General Sibiya&rsquo;s office reflects this.&rdquo; Taking a dig at the ousted African National Congress regime that previously led the City, Mashaba who is a Democratic Alliance member, said: &ldquo;The days of past administrations turning a blind eye to your blatant looting are over&rdquo;. &ldquo;We will expose you and you will face the full might of the law.&rdquo;