Health and care brands group Ascendis Health increased its revenue by 66% to R3.1-billion in the half-year to December 31, as the business significantly increased international sales following two major acquisitions in Europe. This included the acquisitions of Cyprus-based pharmaceutical manufacturer Remedica Holdings and European sports nutrition business Scitec International, for a combined &euro;430-million. CEO Dr Karsten Wellner noted that the acquisitions formed part of the group&rsquo;s strategy to internationalise the business by buying platform businesses in offshore markets and extracting synergies from these businesses. &ldquo;Our strategy ensures diversity across products, channels, geographies and currencies,&rdquo; he said. Remedica and Scitec have been successfully integrated into the group and contributed revenue of R940-million for the five months since they were acquired. This resulted in the group&rsquo;s foreign revenue increasing by 270% to R1.3-billion, accounting for 43% of total sales and providing a natural hedge against rand volatility. Meanwhile, the group reported an 89% increase in its normalised earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (Ebitda) to R541-million, with the Ebitda margin increasing by 210 basis points to 17.4%.&nbsp; Ascendis&rsquo;s headline earnings on a normalised basis also increased by 105% to R310-million, with normalised headline earnings a share up 34% to 74.9c apiece. The interim dividend increased by 16% to 11c apiece.&nbsp; On the outlook for the remainder of the financial year, Wellner said synergy projects for Remedica, Farmalider and Scitec would remain management&rsquo;s priority. The company said it would also remain acquisitive, seeking value-enhancing opportunities locally and offshore, with R750-million available for such activities over the next year. &ldquo;We are currently evaluating potential acquisitions of platform and bolt-on businesses in Europe and emerging markets, as well as South Africa,&rdquo; Wellner added. During the period under review, the company also bought Sunwave Pharma, an over-the-counter (OTC) nutrition and food supplements brand business in Romania, for &euro;42.5-million, with a maximum deferred payment of &euro;23-million over three years based on financial targets. &ldquo;Sunwave provides an attractive platform for Ascendis to enter the high-growth Romanian and eastern European OTC markets. The business has a strong sales and profit record based on a unique distribution model of marketing complementary medicines directly to doctors through a sales force of 290,&rdquo; commented Wellner. Ascendis earlier this week also announced the acquisition of the Southern African animal health product operations of Cipla India, which comprise Cipla Vet and Cipla Agrimed. The R375-million acquisition is also expected to be accretive from May.