South African property development company Atterbury will open its fourth retail development in Ghana, the $95-million Kumasi City mall on April 20. The 18 500 m2 modern mall, with potential for a future 10 000 m2 expansion, will give the city of Kumasi its first one-stop building with shopping and entertainment facilities. &ldquo;We are optimistic about Ghana and Kumasi City mall, notwithstanding the challenging economic context in West Africa and competition. There&rsquo;s a growing positive feeling about Ghana in the market. &ldquo;With its new President, there is also renewed confidence and positive sentiment about Ghana. Kumasi City mall is perfectly timed for this upsurge in confidence,&rdquo; said Atterbury Property Development retail director Cobus van Heerden. Virtually fully let, Kumasi City mall&rsquo;s anchor tenants are Shoprite and Game, with the new shopping centre supporting the growth of both retailers in the region. Its retail mix includes food, convenience, banking, services, fashion, electronics and a cinema, a club and children&rsquo;s games for entertainment, with a long list of local retail names. Kumasi Mall is enclosed on either end, with a semi-enclosed food court at its heart. &ldquo;Its food court serves as an excellent third anchor. It responds to the outgoing and social nature of the people of Kumasi by offering a vibrant dining and entertainment space with generous seating and shaded areas,&rdquo; said Van Heerden. It has a prominent road frontage, undercover and on-grade parking, and is easily accessible. There&rsquo;s also a large taxi drop-off and pick-up facility in front of the mall. The word &lsquo;kumasi&rsquo; means flower, which is portrayed in the mall&rsquo;s logo. True to its name, this retail asset has blossomed over its 24-month development period, making a positive impact in its community, bringing opportunities for employment and giving a boost to the local economy. Designed in a joint venture between South African architect practice Boogertman + Partners and Ghanaian practice MultiCAD, the mall incorporates steel, concrete and wood, in an elegant design inspired by an African tree, which branches out to create a roof canopy. Together, its many different tree-shaped columns create a forest, illuminated by plenty of natural light from beautiful African skies. All firms in Kumasi City mall&rsquo;s professional team operated with local partners for the delivery of professional services. The mall&rsquo;s development and construction has boosted jobs in the area and will continue to do so as part of its ongoing operation. Another two Atterbury shopping centre developments in sub-Saharan Africa are set to open in the next six months. In partnership with Tradehold Africa, Atterbury is developing the 7 000 m2 Pemba shopping centre, in Mozambique, that is set to open in June. Atterbury is also developing the 27 000 m2 Dunes mall in Walvis Bay, Namibia, in partnership with Safland International. The mall is scheduled to open in October.