Plans are under way to develop 120 ha of the 240 ha Two Rivers Urban Park (TRUP), in Cape Town, into a mixed-use development to provide previously disadvantaged and lower-income families access to the central business district. The TRUP, located near the confluence of the city&rsquo;s Liesbeek and Black rivers, will be developed through cooperation between the African Centre for Cities and the Dutch International New Town Institute. &ldquo;The Netherlands aspires to be a reliable and solutions-driven partner. We believe that it is essential to first understand South Africa&rsquo;s unique context before setting out to achieve real results in brownfield urban development,&rdquo; Netherlands Consul General Bonnie Horbach said at a workshop on Friday. The workshop was convened to discuss the findings and recommendations of Phase 2 of the TRUP project, where Dutch and South African specialists explored policy and research; design and planning; environmental and heritage opportunities; the feasibility of interconnected transportation systems and collaboration in developing water management. &ldquo;TRUP is a magnificent opportunity for the Western Cape province and City of Cape Town to lead the way in guiding the Global South towards an urban future that is socially equal, ecologically sustainable and economically vital,&rdquo; said the Dutch team&rsquo;s Eric Frijters. TRUP was the outcome of a seven-year public participation process in partnership with all the landowners and stakeholders within the park boundary, which comprises sensitive ecological systems and habitats, extensive open space areas, significant institutions, historical buildings and cultural landscapes. In January, the City of Cape Town signed a memorandum of understanding with Netherlands Prime Minister Mark Rutte to enable Dutch and South African urban designers to continue to work together. The cooperation forms part of the Dutch campaign in South Africa, named #cocreateSA. A series of workshops were structured to include peer reviewing of existing identified challenges, followed by the formulation of written inputs based on innovative best practices and international benchmarking in design and scenario development. The workshops aimed to create consensus among the stakeholders around &ldquo;catalytic projects&rdquo; before the implementation phase.