Canada&rsquo;s Deputy Minister of Global Affairs, Ian Shugart, on Wednesday announced a contribution of R25-million to the Equal Spaces: Social Housing to End Spatial Apartheid project, in South Africa. &nbsp; The project will be managed by Canadian nongovernmental organisation Rooftops Canada and will support four metropolitan areas, including Johannesburg, Cape Town, eThekwini and Ekurhuleni. &ldquo;The Canadian government&rsquo;s support for this project will help to revitalise inner city urban communities through the creation of social housing developments that are well managed, centrally located, affordable and secure,&rdquo; he said at an event hosted by the Canadian Embassy, in Johannesburg. He noted that the project will support urban regeneration initiatives and provide technical assistance to social housing institutions across the country. &nbsp; Rooftops Canada will work directly with the South African Department of Human Settlements, the Social Housing Regulatory Authority and the National Association of Social Housing Organisations, as well as various stakeholders who play a part in the social housing sector. &nbsp; The initiative is set to reach hundreds of social housing stakeholders and help provide up to 4 500 safe, affordable, well-located social housing units, accommodating about 16 000 low- and moderate-income people. Shugart said these efforts would help alleviate poverty and contribute to economic growth, gender equality and transformation. &nbsp; &ldquo;Canada&rsquo;s development programming seeks to help strengthen South Africa&#39;s public institutions to meet the needs of all South Africans, particularly the most marginalised.&rdquo; He added that the project was an example of Canada&rsquo;s focus on supporting South Africa&rsquo;s National Development Plan objectives to reduce poverty and inequality, promote inclusive economic growth and build a more capable State. &nbsp; Shugart further stated that South Africa was Canada&rsquo;s most important political and trading partner in sub-Saharan Africa and this new project was part of a broad collaboration between Canada and South Africa. &ldquo;Sustainable development, the empowerment of women and providing opportunities for youth are also key priorities for our government. Canada is committed to ensuring that all development assistance recognises the differences in the experience of women and men . . . to deliver equitable benefits and contribute to reducing gender inequalities,&rdquo; he said. He added that access to training and professional improvement will be shared equitably between women and men to ensure that the benefits of this project do not entrench existing inequalities. Shugart pointed out that Canada and South Africa were both committed to the global Sustainable Development Goals, an overarching set of seventeen global commitments that together work towards ending poverty, protecting the planet, and ensuring prosperity for all. &ldquo;Among these is goal number 11 focusing on sustainable cities and communities, which speaks about the need for more safe and affordable housing in urban centres. I think this project is an excellent contribution in meeting this objective,&rdquo; he said.