The National Metrology Institute of South Africa (NMISA) on Wednesday launched its new Resodyn Acoustic Mixer (RAM), which it bought for R12-million. The RAM is an industrial mixer that thoroughly mixes gases, liquids, solids, powders and viscous compounds, without the need for impellers or agitators. It is capable of mixing quantities from 1 lb to 80 lb. &ldquo;The machine uses a concept similar to that of a paint shaker. It mixes different elements, vibrating up and down at 60 cycles a second,&rdquo; research and development firm Resodyn senior electric and controls engineer Brian Seaholm explained. He added that an automated hoist safely loads vessels into the mixer while digital controls and software provide real-time monitoring and control of the mixing process. &ldquo;Benefits include faster cycle times, reduced process waste, simple scale-up, flexibility in mixing vessel selection and new options for product and process design.&rdquo; &ldquo;RAM mixers use low-frequency, high-intensity acoustic energy to fluidise the mix load so there are no impellers or mixing blades in the mixing chamber. These versatile mixers can quickly mix everything from high-viscosity rocket propellant to pharmaceutical powders,&rdquo; he noted. Seaholm added that investigations had demonstrated significantly improved material mixing with reduced mixing time compared with traditional mixers. &nbsp; &ldquo;NMISA is the first institution in the southern hemisphere to own a production-scale RAM 5 acoustic mixing system,&rdquo; NMISA CEO Ndwakhulu Mukhufhi said. Speaking to Engineering News Online, he stated that the RAM technology benefited most industries in South Africa, especially the mining, pharmaceuticals and manufacturing sectors. &ldquo;Most of the products that are manufactured or produced for different applications require homogeneity in the product; every part needs to be the same, and that is what the technology does,&rdquo; he said. He added that NMISA wanted to open the technology to all potential users. &ldquo;This is so that . . . clients can engage with the institution and co-develop their applications with us,&rdquo; Mukhufhi&nbsp; said. He pointed out that this technology was essential for South Africa and was applicable across all industries because it assisted with the homogeneity of products, which is essential for the manufacturing sector, to remain competitive. &ldquo;We support the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) to [drive competitiveness in the country] and this will provide the competitive edge to South African manufactured products, boosting all sectors but especially the country&rsquo;s automotive and manufacturing industries,&rdquo; he said. Mukhufhi noted that part of the NMISA&rsquo;s mandate, through the DTI, was to stimulate economic growth through the Industrial Policy Action Plan, now in its ninth iteration. He added that technology was able to support economic growth in terms of shortening the time it takes to get products to market, which improved cost efficiencies. &ldquo;Instead of taking a day to mix a product, the RAM can do it in 15 minutes [which makes a huge difference] in terms of time and cost savings.