Despite the fact that South Africa&#39;s Spatial Data Infrastructure Act was passed nearly 14 years ago, in 2003, with the intent of establishing the South African Spatial Data Infrastructure (Sasdi), the Committee for Spatial Information (CSI) and the Electronic Metadata Catalogue, among other things, and despite major progress that has been made since, significant gaps still exist in the Sasdi and related programmes. This was pointed out by Department of Rural Development and Land Reform National Spatial Information Framework director Maroale Chauke at the Earth Observation Indaba, in Pretoria, on Monday. The purpose of Sasdi was, among other things, she pointed out, to capture, and then to promote the effective management of, spatial information; to promote the use and sharing of spatial information; and to create an environment which promotes cooperation and coordination in the use of spatial information. But the Act is now so old that it needs amendment, in order to make provision for the private sector. The progress that has been made includes the approval and appointment of the CSI. Indeed, the second CSI was appointed last May. The Spatial Data Information regulations are in place. A draft set of Sasdi compliance guidelines has been developed. Three geospatial information standards have been approved for implementation (these are all metadata standards, which are very important), but more are required. Two, but only two, spatial information policies have so far been approved. These are the basic dataset custodianship policy and the policy on the pricing of spatial information products. Ten Basic Dataset Custodianships have been identified. These have to register, capture and maintain the metadata for any spatial information, held by them in accordance with the Act. But only two such custodians have been appointed. A number of full-time posts in different national and provincial government departments, agencies and parastatals, required to implement the Sasdi, have still not been filled. Ten Base Dataset themes (not to be confused with the Custodianships) have been identified, but only two Basic Dataset Coordinators have been appointed, who are responsible for Land Cover and Conservation Areas. The CSI has set up six subcommittees. These are: Policy and Legislation (because of the need to amend the Act), Data, Systems, Standards, Education and Training, and Marketing and Communications. The CSI recognises the need to bring in the private sector (one of the functions of the last-named subcommittee). Two broad categories of spatial information products and services have been identified. First, generally available products and services, which cannot be charged for; and second, value-added products and services, which can be charged for. A Data Capture Project Register (DCPR) is also being developed. &quot;We need to know who is doing what,&quot; she pointed out. This provides a platform for users to report errors or submit their user requirements for capturing data. The DCPR also serves to register, adjudicate and track projects that are intended for capturing spatial data.