Seven work groups are expected to be established to help prepare the Kouga municipal region for the construction of a nuclear plant at Thyspunt should the national power project receive the green light. Kouga executive mayor Elza van Lingen said the work groups will serve as subcommittees of the Thyspunt Nuclear Project Joint Steering Committee. The Joint Steering Committee was established last December and is cochaired by Eskom and Kouga municipality officials. Van Lingen said the work groups would be responsible for identifying and addressing opportunities and potential pitfalls, including infrastructure shortages, should the Thyspunt development proceed. &ldquo;As stated before, the Kouga Council is not opposed to nuclear development per se, but we are not willing for Kouga and its people to be disadvantaged by the project. &ldquo;If a nuclear plant is to be built in our area, Kouga&rsquo;s people must be ready to reap the benefits and proper measures must be in place to mitigate any potential threats.&rdquo; The Mayor stressed that a final decision had not yet been made about the proposed nuclear plant at Thyspunt. &ldquo;These structures are being put in place so as to ensure that role-players and stakeholders are ready should the project receive the nod. If approved, Thyspunt will be the biggest development our municipal area has ever seen. We want to ensure that the best interests of our communities are taken into account at all times,&rdquo; she said. Eskom&rsquo;s acting GM Loyiso Tyabashe said Eskom was currently awaiting the outcome of the final environmental-impact assessment regarding its plans for nuclear from the Department of Environmental Affairs. Applications for two Nuclear Installation Site Licences, at Thyspunt and Duynefontein, have also been submitted to the National Nuclear Regulator. &ldquo;There have been some delays in the release of the environmental authorisation (EA) due to the scope and complexity of the project, but the Department has indicated that the EA should be issued by mid-2017,&rdquo; he said.