Energy storage solutions company Blue Nova has launched a new production facility in Somerset West, near Cape Town, to keep up with rising demand for lithium-iron yttrium phosphate (LiFeYPo4) batteries. The lithium-iron batteries are seen as an excellent alternative to ageing lead-acid batteries, as they are more environment-friendly and have up to six times the storage capacity. They are also considered to be safer than lead-acid batteries. &ldquo;Lead-acid batteries will always be there as a standby. But lithium-iron batteries are fantastic, the way they absorb energy,&rdquo; says Blue Nova CEO James Verster.&nbsp; Blue Nova has formed a partnership with the JSE-listed Reutech Group and is developing market opportunities in the residential, commercial and industrial sectors. Verster sees the introduction of lithium-iron batteries as transformative, as the technology has grown exponentially over the past 23 years. A lithium-iron battery is a member of a family of rechargeable battery types in which lithium ions move from the negative electrode to the positive electrode. &ldquo;They are extremely efficient and versatile and can be used in very high temperatures,&rdquo; Verster tells Engineering News Online. As such, they are well-suited to the African climate. The battery life of lead-acid batteries tends to diminish dramatically at high temperatures. Lithium-iron batteries are set to withstand the heat. &ldquo;We can offer a battery that will operate in a 35 &deg;C to 40 &deg;C environment and still give you 10 to 15 years of battery life.&rdquo; Conversely, lithium-iron batteries do not operate quite as well in very cold temperatures and need to be warmed up before use. &ldquo;The Achilles heel of lithium-iron batteries is that they lose capacity at very cold temperatures, and they need to be warmed up with a blanket that we sell.&rdquo; Verster sees tremendous potential in using lithium-iron batteries in rural areas. Its small 13 kg battery is its most popular one, with a cycle life of 7 000 cycles. Verster says the battery is made with a handle and is portable enough to be carried by children. &ldquo;We see it as giving power to the people in the real sense. People, who have traditionally used lead-acid batteries, will be able to power far more than simply a television or a light. We see a strong correlation between quality of life and energy consumption &ndash; and we believe this will make a difference.&rdquo; Verster says Blue Nova is active mainly in the residential and light industry sectors but plans to talk to serious players in the heavy off-grid market this year. It sees great potential for its battery range in big game lodges including those in the Kruger National Park. &ldquo;We have a couple of projects going this year in the 100 kWh to 200 kWh category.&rdquo; Blue Nova buys its lithium cells from China, but its control electronics, displays and software have been developed by its engineers in South Africa. It currently produces its battery for South African use, but also exports to Zambia, Namibia, Botswana and Mozambique. The company intends to register one or two projects with universities to do further research on efficiency.