Opec Secretary-General Mohammad Barkindo said on Thursday that an overhang in global oil inventories was declining but stockpiles still needed to fall closer to the five-year industry average. &quot;While it is evident that the market rebalancing is now moving forward and investment specifically in short-cycle projects is returning, it is essential we do not take our eyes off our desired goals,&quot; he told a conference in Paris. &quot;We need to see the global stock overhang move closer to its five-year average. We need to see the return of more long-cycle investments.&quot; Barkindo&#39;s views were echoed by oil ministers from Opec members Iraq and Angola, also attending the conference. Iraqi oil minister Jabar al-Luaibi said production cuts were gradually leading to a long-awaited rebalancing of the market. The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and a number of non-Opec producers meet on May 25 to discuss extending output curbs that cover the first half of 2017. The cuts total 1.8-million barrels a day, two-thirds of that from Opec producers, and are aimed at clearing a supply glut that has depressed oil prices. Luaibi added that Baghdad will go with the consensus reached by Opec when the group meets in Vienna next month. Angola&#39;s oil minister Jos&eacute; Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos said he believed the deal would be extended beyond June. &quot;The market is moving toward rebalancing,&quot; Amin Nasser, chief executive of State oil giant Saudi Aramco, said at the same event. &quot;I see the oil market pointing upward and expect it to continue improving.&quot; Barkindo said consensus on a decision during Opec&#39;s next meeting was &quot;gradually building up&quot;. The International Energy Agency said in its latest monthly market report that oil stocks in industrialised countries stood at around 3.06-billion barrels at the end of February, a figure that mostly includes crude and oil products. Stocks were some 336-million barrels above the five-year average, the Paris-based IEA said.