From Creamer Media in Johannesburg, this is the Real Economy Report. Sashnee Moodley: Asset management Fortress Income Fund has launched its Westlake View logistics park, further increasing the companies warehousing and logistics development pipeline, which currently has a gross leasable area of about 1-million m2 that spans Gauteng, the Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. David Oliveira tells us more. David Oliveria: The Westlake View logistics park comprises 17 838 m2 of warehousing and 2 040 m2. The facility achieved practical completion in March this year and is ready for occupation. Engineering News caught up with Fortress director Andrew Teixeira who highlighted the features of the company&rsquo;s latest property launch. Fortress director Andrew Teixeira: &nbsp; David Oliveria: Meanwhile, Teixeira highlighted the importance of location and proximity to key highways to ensure the efficiency of transporting goods. Fortress director Andrew Teixeira: &nbsp; David Oliveria: As such Westlake View was strategically developed in close proximity to the London road off-ramp, which provides access to the N3. Teixeira highlighted that the facilities location has the added benefit of having access to the eastern parts of Johannesburg and Or Tambo International Airport without delivery vehicles needing to drive on highways, which was particularly useful in the event of the N3 being congested. Fortress director Andrew Teixeira: &nbsp; David Oliveira: Earth works for the construction of the logistics park took about two months, which Teixeira pointed out was a challenging aspect of the project owing to the significant slope on sight, resulting in the construction of high retaining walls around the facility. The super structure took 11-months to complete. Meanwhile, over the last decade Fortress has focused much of its asset investments into the logistics and warehousing space. Teixeira explained why and also provided insight into the company&rsquo;s logistics and warehouse project pipeline. Fortress director Andrew Teixeira: Sashnee Moodley: Other news making headlines: Technology improved on cranes for efficient operation And, new excavator brought to Africa Technological advancements over the years have meant Midrand-based tower cranes and lifting solutions company SA French has been able to install trackers on its crane fleet, ensuring more efficient operations during construction projects. SA French MD Quentin van Breda &nbsp; Industrial and agricultural equipment supplier Smith Power Equipment has expanded its Japanese construction equipment product offering in South Africa. Smith Power Equipment GM Tom Bloom &nbsp; Sashnee Moodley: That&rsquo;s Creamer Media&rsquo;s Real Economy Report. Join us again next week for more news and insight into South Africa&rsquo;s real economy.