The South African Transport and Allied Workers&rsquo; Union (Satawu) on Monday, said it was ready for tough wage negotiations beginning this week for the passenger bus sector. The transport unions and employers in the South African Road Passenger Bargaining Council would put their offers on the table at the negotiations set take place in three phases starting Monday until Friday. Satawu, the biggest union in the industry, said it had this year managed to influence other unions to bring forth radical demands in order to transform working conditions for the better. The union&rsquo;s demands include a 30% across the board wage increase and an industry basic minimum wage of R15 000 a month. Satawu said ordinary work hours should not to exceed 40 hours in any week without realigning current wages. The union also wants any work performed after 18:00 and before 06:00 the next morning to be deemed night work and be remunerated at 1.5 times the normal rate. In a statement, Satawu&rsquo;s spokesperson Zanele Sabela the Main Collective Agreement was compromised on certain aspects as evidenced by several illegal strikes in this sector last year. &ldquo;We believe it is now time to turn the situation around. We will not compromise on our mission or accept mediocrity. We warn those unions who often vacillate when stances harden, that we will pull through with or without them,&rdquo; Sabela said. &ldquo;However, we urge them to ready themselves for battle to ensure transformative gains for our members.&rdquo; Satawu also said employers should provide legal assistance to the tune of R10 000 when an employee on duty is involved in an accident and is subsequently charged with a criminal offence. The second phase of wage negotiations in the passenger bus sector would resume on February 6 to 9, with the final session to be held from February 27 to March 2. The passenger bus sector is a crucial part of the public transport system estimated to transport more than 20% of South African households for economic, social and other reasons. According to StatsSA National Household Travel Survey, taxis carry the bulk of passengers at 68.8% with trains transporting the remaining 9.9%.