The four-day Cabinet Lekgotla which sets the tone for President Jacob Zuma&rsquo;s State-of-the-Nation (SoNA) will focus strongly on boosting South Africa&rsquo;s economic growth, a statement from the presidency said on Tuesday. The Lekgotla, which starts on Wednesday, would be attended by Zuma, his deputy, cabinet minister and deputy ministers. Premiers and local government representatives would also attend. &ldquo;Given the continuing of slow economic growth, the Lekgotla will also deliberate strongly on efforts to reignite economic growth, working with other social partners, taking forward the achievements of the past year in promoting unity in action in protecting the economy and advancing growth in a difficult economic environment.&rdquo; The theme of SoNA 2017 will revolve around the 100th anniversary of Oliver Tambo&rsquo;s birth. Tambo was the longest serving president of the ruling African National Congress. &ldquo;In this regard, the deliberations in the Cabinet Lekgotla will be informed by the uplifting legacy of OR Tambo, based on building a truly united, non-racial, non-sexist, democratic and prosperous South Africa,&rdquo; Zuma&rsquo;s office said. &ldquo;Discussions are expected to reflect strongly on radical socio-economic transformation to uplift the poor and the working class and to move the country forward to prosperity and true reconciliation, which is what OR Tambo strove for.&rdquo; Several other activities would take place prior to and after SoNA. Zuma said he and members of the inter-ministerial committee on investment promotion will host a pre-SoNA investor briefing. &ldquo;The session will be attended by CEOs, labour leaders and the leadership of business organisations. The session will contribute to the preparations of the SoNA and further promote unity in action towards inclusive growth.&rdquo; The day after SoNA, the annual presidential golf challenge, hosted by the department of public service and administration, would be held. The proceeds of the tournament usually goes to a charity of the President&rsquo;s choice. This year&rsquo;s proceeds go to the the Jacob Zuma RDP Education Trust.