JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) &ndash; The tempo of mine modernisation &ndash; the coming together of mechanisation, digitisation and behavioural change &ndash; is on the up as mining companies pursue what is seen as the next productivity step change. With several companies having already mechanised, a growing number are now looking to digitise as well as introducing behavioural change programmes, which are increasing the potential for improved mine safety. Ernst &amp; Young (EY) mining and metals sector leaders have for some time been sharing with clients how digitisation can increase mining productivity and how digital advances in adjacent industries as well as completely different industries can be applied to mining. Everything miners have been doing intuitively can now be done with detailed fore knowledge through digitisation, which converts data points into decision-making, EY mining and metals leader Wickus Botha explained to Mining Weekly Online. Digitisation facilitates the receiving of advance data in real time and in far more granular form. The goal being earnestly pursued is the attainment of real time orebody visibility, which ensures the best financial return through certainty of what the orebody contains. It is clear that digitisation will definitely not be brought about by technology alone and that the required interaction of people, process and technology will result in more jobs rather than fewer jobs. &ldquo;We in South Africa could become the centre of mining excellence for the rest of the world in the area of digital mining,&rdquo; EY partner Wim Hoogedeure commented to Mining Weekly Online. The digitisation picture outlined by EY resonates with that expressed last week at the Gordon Institute of Business Science (GIBS), which highlighted the strong commitment of major companies like GE of the US and Transnet of South Africa to digital transformation as a means of driving growth on the African continent. It also resonates with the views expressed at last year&rsquo;s Mining for the Future conference of the Southern African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (SAIMM) on where proven technologies are taking industry &ndash; and also mining. At the core of digitisation is the ability to analyse and use data. As outlined at GIBS, GE is investing in big data to improve operating efficiencies at operational level and engineering schools like the School of Mining Engineering at the University of the Witwatersrand are continuing to delineate the way in which information technology can improve mine economics. Interestingly, software is available that allows anything envisaged for use in mining to be proven digitally before being physically applied and before any equipment is bought. All process development can be done on computer and production considered only once there is security of accuracy. &ldquo;We could potentially leapfrog mining into a next-generation digital industry. I believe we could even leapfrog other industries,&rdquo; was NxGN CEO Gary Lane&rsquo;s comment on the sidelines of the SAIMM seminar.