
	Gauteng Premier David Makhura on Thursday tabled the fourth Political Report of the Gauteng provincial government and highlighted the opportunities that were arising from the fourth industrial revolution. 
	Makhura said the unfolding of the fourth industrial revolution was shaping the economy and creating new industries and he pointed out that young people were taking advantage of the opportunities.   
	“It is self-evident that a combination of the ICT [information and communications technology] revolution and the emergence of new media platforms is giving rise to new industries at the centre of which is the energy and creativity of the youth,” said Makhura. 
	Makhura commended local hip hop artist Cassper Nyovest, who was his guest of honour at the legislature, for his recent #FillUpFNBStadium initiative. Nyovest set a gold standard in attendance of hip hop concerts through #FillUpFNBStadium, by packing Soccer City Stadium, in Johannesburg with 68 000 young people. 
	Nyovest, who is one of the young ambassadors against women abuse and gender-based violence, has contributed R50 000 to a student fundraising initiative at Wits University and another R100 000 to a campaign against xenophobia. 
	Makhura said Nyovest’s story and those of many young creative minds in South Africa was an economically inspiring example of how the creative and cultural industries of Gauteng province offered huge economic opportunities to many young entrepreneurs and talented artists. 
	He stated that this fourth industrial revolution has placed artificial intelligence, big data and knowledge at the centre of future production processes and ecosystems. 
	Meanwhile, since December 2014, 437 000 young people have benefited from Tshepo 1 Million, a youth skills empowerment initiative by the Gauteng provincial government designed to break down the barriers that young people encounter when looking for work opportunities. 
	Makhura said government’s target was to reach one-million young people by 2019. 
	“Working with the private sector and young people like Cassper and his peers in the cultural and creative industries, we can surpass this target,” added Makhura. 
	“I would like to commend all 40 companies who have signed up for groundbreaking public-private partnerships and further call on others to join this initiative to give hope to our youth,” said Makhura. 
	He called on others to join the initiative to give hope to the youth. 