The Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (Icasa) on Thursday kicked off the public hearings on the revised draft update to the National Radio Frequency Plan (NRFP), which is aimed at ensuring the most efficient use of the radio frequency spectrum. Stakeholders presenting at the hearings at Icasa&rsquo;s Sandton headquarters, from February 9 to 10, in principle, welcomed the framework put forward in what is deemed the most critical document in the &ldquo;spectrum domain&rdquo;; however, issues pertaining to a migration plan, spectrum sharing, as well as requests for clarifications, deviations and amendments emerged during the proceedings. The hearings form part of Icasa&rsquo;s work to align the draft NRFP 2017 with the Final Acts of the World Radio Conference 2015 (WRC-15) and the latest version of the International Telecommunications Radio Regulations, as well as to ensure that spectrum allocations reflect the use of the radio frequency spectrum until the next WRC in 2019. &ldquo;The goal is to ensure that, as of 2017, and in time for the planned date of the next WRC&nbsp; . . .&nbsp; the use of radio frequency spectrum is up-to-date . . .,&rdquo; Icasa stated. The revised draft NRFP update and amendment was released in December last year for public comment. Opening the public hearing sessions, Icasa committee chairperson councillor Peter Zimri explained that South Africa&rsquo;s geography and its population spread &ldquo;lends itself to technologies which favour wireless solutions.&rdquo; &ldquo;Therefore, it is no surprise that mobile broadband access in the country has emerged at the most popular solution for advancing broadband access in the country, as well as our continent,&rdquo; he said. Operators MTN, Cell C, Telkom and Vodacom, besides several others, conferred, however, that a migration plan needed to be incorporated into or alongside the draft document underpinning the current and future use of the radio frequency spectrum. Telkom suggested that the approach to dealing with the new frequency migrations resulting from the WRC-15 decisions was not clear. Currently, no migration plan had been included in the draft NRFP, with Icasa indicating that the Frequency Migration Plan (FMP) process would follow the draft to address the frequency migrations identified during the evolution of the earlier national radio frequency plans. Telkom asserted that supporting technical documentation, such as FMP, Radio Frequency Spectrum Regulations and Radio Frequency Spectrum Assignment Plans, is required in many cases. MTN pointed out in its submission that while a migration plan was published in 2013, contained within the 2013 NRFP, it is critical that the plan is updated in conjunction with the 2017 NRFP. Telkom requested Icasa publish a reworked second draft before finalising the NRFP 2017 to allow industry further opportunity to assess the final plan, particularly as further consultation was required on certain new, complex proposals in the draft, and to ensure the proposed general amendments were introduced &ldquo;in a manner that did not compromise spectrum utilisation and licensing.&rdquo; A key theme during the public hearings was that the radio frequency spectrum be used and managed in a transparent, orderly, efficient and effective manner. Cell C called for sufficient procedures to be in place to eliminate harmful interference; the creation of a flexible environment to adapt to market change, new technologies, innovation and the rapid introduction of services; consistent government policies; and ensuring economic efficiencies of spectrum allocated to users. The operator also requested the promotion, development and introduction of spectrum-saving technologies and the harmonisation of radio frequency with international, regional and national requirements. &ldquo;The NRFP must also embrace the framework of the Electronic Communications Act and create an environment for technological innovation and economic growth,&rdquo; the operator added. In addition, Cell C encouraged a period review of the NRFP as needed. Telkom noted that the radio frequency spectrum was shared between more than 40 radiocommunication services. Other participants presenting at the public hearings included Sentech, South African Radio League and the South African Broadcasting Corporation.