To boost its organic and acquisitive growth, while advancing its ambitions of becoming a global business, seafood producer Sea Harvest Group plans to list on the JSE by the end of March. Listing would provide the black-owned company, which has operations in South Africa and Australia, ongoing access to national and international equity capital. &ldquo;[This will enable] the company to continue investing in its people, vessels, factories and markets to enhance margins in an attractive international seafood market,&rdquo; CEO Felix Ratheb said. The proceeds from the listing of up to R1.5-billion will be used to repay all debt and further invest in the group. Ratheb, who is also nonexecutive director of ASX-listed agribusiness Mareterram, in which Sea Harvest owns a 56% stake, added that through the capital raise, Sea Harvest will be well-positioned to pursue further acquisitions in the South African fishing industry, as well as support Mareterram&rsquo;s growth ambitions of becoming a diversified agribusiness in Australia. The group has demonstrated strong growth in the last five years, with revenue growing at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 15% and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (Ebitda) growing at a CAGR of 22%. In this period, Ebitda margins expanded to 19% and, in the financial year ended December 31, 2016, 59% of the group&rsquo;s revenues were generated in hard currencies, with Europe and Australia being the group&rsquo;s largest international markets. &ldquo;This solid performance could not have been achieved without investment in assets, a new and energised management team, supportive shareholders and a dedicated workforce. Sea Harvest is well-poised for further organic and acquisitive growth as the demand for wild-caught sustainable seafood increases globally and supply remains stable,&rdquo; said Sea Harvest chief investment officer Muhammad Brey. The group has invested over R300-million in the past three years in vessel acquisitions and factory upgrades to enhance margins and create a world-class asset base. In addition, the company invested close to R250-million in acquiring an interest in Mareterram to fortify its ability to earn foreign currency and diversify its earnings base and use Mareterram as a platform for future growth in Australia. Listing the business on the JSE will be another milestone in Sea Harvest&rsquo;s 53-year journey and will see the formation of a truly black-owned industrial fishing company. &ldquo;We look forward to our continued commitment to transformation in the fishing industry where, after listing, [investment company] Brimstone will remain the majority shareholder of Sea Harvest,&rdquo; said Brimstone chairperson Fred Robertson. Brimstone currently holds 828-million Sea Harvest ordinary shares, which represents an interest of 85%. After listing, this will be diluted to around 52%. In addition, Brimstone has provided Sea Harvest R575-million in funding, in the form of the Sea Harvest preference shares and Sea Harvest shareholder loans. &ldquo;The listing will allow us to continue building a sustainable black-owned fishing company that will generate a return for all its shareholders and be a true asset to the South African economy,&rdquo; said Robertson.