The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) announced its new CEO on Wednesday. He is Dr Thulani Dlamini, a chemist. His previous job was VP: strategic research and technology at petrochemical group Sasol. He has worked at the CSIR before, from 2005 to 2011, when he joined Sasol, initially becoming executive manager: research and development (R&amp;D). &ldquo;I am excited about my return to the CSIR to take forward the excellent work of my predecessors,&rdquo; affirmed Dlamini. &ldquo;I look forward to working with our partners and the brilliant minds in the organisation. The CSIR is well positioned to have an impact beyond the South African borders, and it is my hope that together with our global partners we can deliver on the mandate of the CSIR to use science, engineering and technology to advance society and industry.&rdquo; From 2005 to 2008 he was head of the CSIR National Laser Centre and from 2008 to 2011 he was CSIR group executive for R&amp;D. He holds a PhD in chemistry from the University of the Witwatersrand and a Master&rsquo;s degree in Business Leadership from the University of South Africa. In addition, he has completed advanced courses offered by institutions including Lausanne, Switzerland-based International Institute for Management Development, regarding technology management and the chemicals industry. During his previous stint at the CSIR, Dlamini played a key role in the setting up of the Photonics Initiative of South Africa and in the development of the national Photonics Research, Development and Innovation Strategy. He is also a member of the Academy of Science of South Africa and has served on a number of boards, including the Automotive Industry Development Centre, Sasol Pension Fund and Sasol Technology UK and the Netherlands. &ldquo;The board is excited about Dr Dlamini joining the CSIR and we have full confidence in his leadership and management skills,&rdquo; enthused CSIR board chairperson Professor Thokozani Majozi. &ldquo;He is indeed the ideal incumbent to usher the CSIR into the new phase. He lands on solid ground, prepared by his predecessors. He can only succeed.&rdquo; Majozi described Dlamini as a &ldquo;thought leader in science&rdquo; and that, as a result, the CSIR was set for greater success. &ldquo;We would like to thank Dr Molefi Motuku who has done a sterling job in leading the organisation as the acting CEO since October 2016,&rdquo; added Majozi. &ldquo;He will, henceforth, be resuming his duties as the group executive for research and development.&rdquo;