From Creamer Media in Johannesburg, this is the Real Economy Report. Sashnee Moodley: Cement producer PPC invited media in January to a tour of its Slurry operation, in the North West, and the construction site of the R1.7-billion Slurry Kiln 9 project, which is scheduled for first clinker production at the beginning of next year. David Oliveria: The brownfield project, which started construction in October 2015, will increase cement production at Slurry from 1.2-million tons a year to 1.9-million tons a year, following first clinker production. PPC CEO Darryll Castle told Engineering News during the site visit that the SK 9 project would replace outdated and inefficient kilns at Slurry and would ultimately result in the operation becoming more competitive. Further, the increased production at Slurry would help PPC &ldquo;attack the areas of South Africa that really make sense to deliver from Slurry&rdquo;. Further, Castle noted that cement demand in South Africa is predicted to increase in the near future and the increased production capacity at Slurry will help PPC take full advantage of the growing market. PPC CEO Darryll Castle: &nbsp; David Oliveira: Meanwhile, PPC projects executive Leon du Plessis explained that SK 9 will replace the outdated SK 5 and 6 units, which will be demolished, as well as the soon-to-be mothballed SK 7 unit. The SK 5 and 6 units started production in 1959 and 1961 respectively, while SK 7 started production in 1968. He pointed out that SK 9 will also comply with National Environmental Management Air Quality Act requirements, which will come into effect in 2020. The Act requires that dust be limited to 30 mg/Nm3 of air across a site. Another component of the SK 9 project will involve the replacement of the SK 8 unit&rsquo;s electrostatic precipitator with a bag filter to ensure compliance with the Act&rsquo;s requirements. SK 8 is expected to be recommissioned late next year. PPC projects executive Leon du Plessis: &nbsp; David Oliveira: Du Plessis highlighted that while construction of the new kiln was unexpectedly delayed, the contractor, CBMI Construction, a subsidiary of Chinese company Sinoma, was able to progress the project sufficiently to still meet the 25-month project delivery schedule. PPC senior projects manager Dipeen Dama explained that the SK 9 unit will incorporate the latest technologies and energy efficient systems in line with global industry best practices. PPC senior projects manager Dipeen Dama: &nbsp; David Oliveira: He highlighted that the new kiln will also employ the latest generation &ldquo;walking floor&rdquo; grate-type cooler technology, which significantly increases the heat recovery of the kiln. PPC senior projects manager Dipeen Dama: &nbsp; Sashnee Moodley: Other news making headlines this week: Sappi to invest $305m in US, Europe mills Cesa eyes ambitious consulting engineering profession transformation strategy And, IBM launches free digital skills development platform for Africa Sappi will invest $305-million over a three-year period in some of its operations in the US and Europe. Sappi head of group communications Andre Oberholzer: &nbsp; A year after taking a back-to-basics approach, Consulting Engineers South Africa is gearing up to tackle transformation within its membership base and throughout its industry. Cesa president Lynne Pretorius: &nbsp; And, technology multinational IBM has launched a $70-million (R945-million) digital literacy and skills development initiative aimed at training 25-million people in Africa over five years. IBM Middle East and Africa university relations manager Juan Pablo Napoli: Sashnee Moodley: That&rsquo;s Creamer Media&rsquo;s Real Economy Report. Join us again next week for more news and insight into South Africa&rsquo;s real economy.