JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) &ndash; The commodity price weakness from 2012 to 2015 was the result of an over-allocation of capital by mining companies from 2006 to 2012, Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg told an American audience on Monday. In an address to the BMO Metals and Mining Conference, in Miami, Glasenberg made the point that the capital over-allocation in the six years to 2012 had concealed the reality of underlying demand actually remaining robust in most commodities. He described 2016 as the turning point for the mining sector and emphasised that future performance would largely be dictated by &ldquo;actions from here&rdquo;. He noted that sector commodities were key to facilitating future economic growth and improved living standards, with Glencore demonstrating that it is capital allocation based on average net present value (NPV) and not marginal NPV added value. The London-, Hong Kong- and Johannesburg-listed company had also recognised that growth in cash flows mattered and not growth in volumes. &ldquo;The supply we generate helps set the price we have to take as a producer,&rdquo; said Glasenberg, who described Glencore as being &ldquo;in the strongest position ever&rdquo; in his 33 years there, in an article in Sunday&rsquo;s Financial Times (FT), which also underscored the mining industry&rsquo;s general 2016 turnaround as being &ldquo;dramatic&rdquo;. &ldquo;Anglo American, BHP Billiton and Glencore reported in their results that they had swung back to profit, fuelled by the rebound in commodity prices,&rdquo; FT mining editor Neil Hume wrote. Glasenberg told the BMO conference the structurally lower industry capital expenditure now in place looked likely to persist in the medium term. Memories of 2015/16 remained fresh for shareholder and management at a time of reduced opportunities to invest and with little or no new economic assets discovered in the past decade. Not only was Glencore genuinely diversified, but it was also focused on what the mining and marketing company regarded as the best commodities. He also described as unique the ability of the company to upscale production in selected commodities when appropriate.