The Gibela Rail Transport Consortium has started recruiting operators and artisans for its new manufacturing facility, as well as trainees for its new training centre, at Dunnottar, in Ekurhuleni, prioritising historically disadvantaged residents of Ekurhuleni East. The consortium, which was contracted by the Passenger Rail Authority of South Africa to build and maintain 600 new trains for South Africa&rsquo;s rail commuter public over the next two decades, is seeking to hire some 145 qualified and experienced operators and artisans to staff its car body shell workshop and the fitting workshop. This will also set in motion the start of manufacturing the first of 580 South African-built trains during the first quarter of 2017. At full capacity, the manufacturing facility will eventually employ some 1 500 people directly. For the car body shell workshop, operators must have a matric with maths and science. Semiskilled boilermakers and welders must have a senior certificate, minimum N1-N2 and a six months&rsquo; institutionalised training certificate. Experience in the lean manufacturing assembly process would be advantageous. Trade-tested boilermakers and welders must have a red seal trade certificate and spot welding experience, while a senior certificate and a technical qualification or diploma would be advantageous. For the fitting workshop, operators must have matric with maths and science, while semiskilled fitters (mechanical and electrical) must have a senior certificate, minimum N1-N2 and a six months&rsquo; institutionalised training certificate. Experience in the lean manufacturing assembly process would be advantageous. Trade-tested fitters would need a red seal trade certificate, while a senior certificate and a technical qualification or diploma would be advantageous. Applicants must be willing to be based at Dunnottar, work shifts, be SMART electronic device-competent and available to start on April 3. The closing date for applications, which can be emailed to gibelafactory@gibela-rail.com or dropped off at the Department of Labour offices in Springs, Nigel, Benoni, Brakpan or Boksburg, is February 24. TRAINEES Meanwhile, Gibela noted that its training centre at Dunnottar is rapidly nearing completion, with applications now open for the first intake of 70 qualifying trainees. Learnerships are available in welding, boilermaking or vehicle building, electrical, electrical fitting and turning or machining, painting, gluing and blasting, and supply chain. A matric with maths and science is required and applicants must be in the National Certificate stream, with engineering subjects. Applicants must be willing to be based at Dunnottar and/or Wolmerton and be available to start on March 1. Some 18 000 trainees are expected to pass through the training centre over the next ten years of operation, into careers not only at Gibela but in the broader South African railway sector.