Ford South Africa is expediting its efforts to assist customers affected by the 1.6-litre Ford Kuga safety recall that was announced in January. The recall was announced after at least 47 of the vehicles caught alight. One person has also died. The recall is limited to about 4 556 1.6-litre models manufactured in Valencia, Spain, between December 2012 and February 2014. &quot;We know that the incidents of engine compartment fires in Ford Kuga 1.6-litre vehicles in South Africa have created concerns for Kuga owners and for the general public. We want to assure you that your safety is our priority,&quot; Ford South Africa CEO Jeff Nemeth said in a statement on Friday. He added that the automotive company recognised that, during the initial process, customers and the public were not well enough informed about the situation. &ldquo;We&#39;ve increased the capacity of our call centre, adding a dedicated Kuga support team, with longer hours and weekend support and we are talking directly to our customers as part of the streamlining process. &ldquo;Since the launch of the maintenance check, we have contacted over 3 800 customers through email and posted letters,&rdquo; Nemeth said.&nbsp; He pointed out that Ford was also flying in parts to alleviate the shortage and all outstanding parts would arrive in South Africa by mid-February. He stated that courtesy vehicles are being provided to keep customers mobile while their cars are being repaired. &ldquo;We have also expanded our current partnership with the Automobile Association for extended Ford Roadside Assistance for all Kuga 1.6-litre vehicles, including those out of the standard three-year cover period, to ensure customer reassurance and peace of mind.&rdquo; Ford said that it could confirm that no incidents of burning vehicles had been reported since the launch of the safety recall on January 16. &quot;I want to stress that with the first stage of the safety recall completed, and with proper maintenance of the coolant system, the 1.6-litre Kuga is safe to drive,&quot; Nemeth added. Ford&#39;s safety recall comprises two stages. The first stage involves replacing affected components on the cooling system, verifying and updating the software and conducting an oil leak check on the cylinder head. &nbsp; The next stage of the safety recall will involve making improvements to the cooling system, making it even more robust, and is likely to involve further changes to parts and warning systems.&nbsp;