Stakeholders in the country&rsquo;s defence industry adopted the Defence Sector Charter, which is intended to promote black economic empowerment in the sector, on Tuesday. The decision was taken at a stakeholder consultation session, which was attended by industry experts, suppliers, trade union representatives, representatives of military veterans, and officials from the Department of Defence and Military Veterans (DDMV), defence acquisition and disposals agency Armscor and the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI). The next steps will the presentation of the charter to the Minister of Defence and Military Veterans and to the National Defence Industry Council. The Minister will then forward it to the Minister of Trade and Industry; thereafter the DTI will publish it for 60 days for further public comment, after which it will be gazetted as the Defence Sector Code. &ldquo;We are pleased with the extensive and robust consultation that has been undertaken to developing the Defence Sector Charter,&rdquo; stated Armscor CEO Kevin Wakeford. &ldquo;There is an equivalent commitment by all to ensure that the defence industry is a leading sector in developing cutting edge technology, as well as in terms of inclusive economic participation. &hellip; our economy will not grow exponentially without collaborative efforts aimed at fighting unemployment, inequality and poverty.&rdquo; &ldquo;The Charter will no doubt assist in accelerating transformation in the defence industry,&rdquo; affirmed DDMV industry governance director and Defence Charter Steering Committee chairperson Trevor Mketi. Both he and Wakeford thanked all those involved in the creation of the charter. The deputy chairperson of the Defence Charter Steering Committee, Advocate Vuyisa Ramphele urged all stakeholders to make further submissions regarding the charter, before the code&#39;s promulgation. She particularly referred to military veterans, women and the youth. &ldquo;This will ensure that all input from different stakeholders is considered,&rdquo; she said.