In response to the Free Market Foundation&rsquo;s (FMF&rsquo;s) comments this week over the National Integrated Information and Communications Technology (ICT) White Paper Policy and its implementation, the Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services (DTPS) on Tuesday assured that comprehensive public engagement had been undertaken in the development of the paper. It added that consultation would continue throughout the paper&rsquo;s implementation. Earlier this week, FMF had raised concerns of varying degrees over the implementation and consultation process of the framework and the deployment of the proposed wholesale open-access network (Woan), stating that the department was incorrect in asserting that the new policy had the support of industry. The DTPS on Tuesday dismissed FMF&rsquo;s claims, pointing out that five engagements had been undertaken with role-players in the ICT sector on the implementation since the Cabinet-approved policy was published in September 2016, with industry support secured for the Woan, particularly at the most recent February 17 meeting. &ldquo;It is perplexing how the author [FMF] concludes that there was no industry support for the implementation of the Woan from the participants at the February 17 meeting. The author attended the meeting and was witness to the fact that three organisations made presentations that supported the Woan,&rdquo; said DTPS spokesperson Siya Qoza. The participants had also committed to transformation, licensing, sustainability, the operating model and resources for the new open-access network, particularly as government had no intention of being involved in the Woan. &ldquo;For example, the six large licenced telecommunications operators proposed a model for implementing the Woan,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It is, therefore, incorrect and improper for the author to state that the Minister&rsquo;s [Siyabonga Cwele&rsquo;s] disingenuousness does not reflect the truth,&rdquo; Qoza stated. Meanwhile, prior to the policy&rsquo;s Cabinet approval, wide and public consultations had been the &ldquo;hallmark of the work&rdquo; in developing the ICT Policy since inception in April 2012 until September 2016, despite statements to the contrary. Further, a Regulatory Impact Assessment has been replaced by the Socioeconomic Impact Assessment System in line with a Cabinet directive, and had been approved by the Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation and accordingly submitted with the policy document before it was approved by Cabinet. &ldquo;Equally unreasonable are suggestions that the policy effectively nationalises a private industry; creates a government monopoly; proposes to expropriate private property; and scraps independent regulator, the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;It is beyond question that the policy proposes radical changes to the current status quo. The policy is as radical as it is regenerative, in that it opens up opportunities for more players to participate, thereby growing the size and recalibrating the boundaries of the sector. It presents a modern view of how to transform the sector and unlock the sector&rsquo;s potential,&rdquo; Qoza commented. Consultations on the implementation of the National Integrated ICT Policy White Paper, which was final, continued to take place to conclude an implementation plan for the policy. &ldquo;We shall continue to engage on the implementation of this policy. The implementation plan will also be a product of thorough consultations and we expect to be able to take it to Cabinet before the end of March,&rdquo; he concluded.