Jaguar drivers can now use their car&rsquo;s touchscreen to pay for fuel at the pump, by making use of a new cashless payment app. The Shell app is one of a number of enhancements to Jaguar&rsquo;s F-PACE, XE and XF models. (Other updates include the addition of gesture technology where the sweep of a foot can open the boot, for example.) Rather than using a card at the pump, or queuing in the forecourt shop, owners who install the Shell app can drive up to any pump at a Shell service station &ndash; initially only in the UK, but then globally &ndash;&nbsp; and use the vehicle&rsquo;s touchscreen to select how much fuel they require and pay using PayPal or Apple Pay. Android Pay will be added later this year. An electronic receipt will be displayed on the touchscreen, so customers can leave the forecourt confident of having paid. A receipt will also be sent directly from the pump to the driver&rsquo;s email address so it can be added to accounting or expenses software. &ldquo;In a world where cash is no longer king, customers are increasingly using electronic payments and contactless cards,&rdquo; says Jaguar Land Rover connected car and future technology director Peter Virk. &ldquo;Making a payment directly from a car&rsquo;s touchscreen will make refuelling quicker and easier. With this new system you can choose any pump on the forecourt and pay for the fuel even if you have forgotten your wallet or cannot find your credit or debit card.&rdquo; &ldquo;Expenses and tax returns will also be made much simpler, with no receipts to lose as these will all be sent electronically.&rdquo; Shell&rsquo;s e-commerce collaboration with Jaguar Land Rover is part of the group&rsquo;s commitment to improve the digital experience at the forecourt, notes Shell retail marketing global VP David Bunch. &ldquo;With around 30-million customers every day, we have a mission to continuously find ways to make our customers&rsquo; journeys better. We look forward to further exciting developments like this across our 43 000 sites around the world soon.&rdquo; The Shell app with in-car cashless payments is now available for download in the UK and will be rolled out to additional markets during 2017 and 2018 &ndash; South Africa included. &nbsp;