With several critical contracts entered into and the restructure of Cell C&rsquo;s debt agreed, JSE-listed Blue Label is looking forward to wrapping up the final processes for a R5.5-billion deal that will see it take ownership of a 45% stake in South Africa&rsquo;s third-largest mobile operator. Blue Label plans to close the deal by June 30, subject to the execution of detailed formal agreements and regulatory approvals. &ldquo;This is something that we are extremely excited about,&rdquo; Blue Label joint-CEO Brett Levy told media on Tuesday, pointing out that the company remained optimistic about the new investment and the commercial benefits it would bring. Discussing the deal during a presentation of the company&rsquo;s interim financial results, he reiterated that a binding umbrella restructure agreement had been entered into this week that would reduce the maximum net borrowings of Cell C to about R6-billion and address its over-geared balance sheet. The parties to the agreement, which is subject to the conclusion of the relevant transaction agreements, comprise Blue Label, Cell C, debt providers of Cell C and an undisclosed third-party investor, besides others. The undisclosed third-party investor will subscribe for 15% of the share capital of Cell C for R2-billion, Oger Telecom for 30%, management for 10% and Blue Label 45%. &ldquo;The agreement sets out the framework and agrees the key principles by which the debt will be reduced through a combination of fresh equity injections and an exchange of Cell C debt for equity,&rdquo; Cell C had explained in a statement earlier this week. Cell C&rsquo;s key lenders include Nedbank, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the China Development Bank and the majority of Euro Bondholders. Blue Label&rsquo;s buyout of a 45% stake in Cell C, which was announced over a year ago, had faced some hurdles in recent weeks, including efforts by Cell C&rsquo;s empowerment partner CellSAf to block the recapitalisation plan. CellSAf holds a 25% stake in Cell C&rsquo;s sole shareholder 3C Telecommunications and had raised concerns over the possible dilution of the mobile operator&rsquo;s black economic empowerment (BEE) structure. Levy and Cell C and Oger chairperson Mohammed Hariri, however, assured that the BEE structure of Cell C would remain unchanged, and would likely increase beyond the 25% base it was currently at. &ldquo;Once completed, the recapitalisation plan will see Cell C&rsquo;s historically disadvantaged individuals ownership credentials increase to more than 30% from its current 25%,&rdquo; explained Hariri. FINANCIAL RESULTS Meanwhile, Blue Label continued its upward earnings trend, posting double-digit growth for the six months to November 30, 2016. The group reported a respective 54% and 56% hike in headline earnings per share (HEPS) and earnings per share to 81.78c for the period under review. Core HEPS increased 52% to 82.86c. &ldquo;Group earnings continued to escalate, comprising a hybrid of organic growth in local operations augmented by the impact of a fair value gain resulting from Oxigen Services India being viewed as a venture capital investment,&rdquo; the company highlighted. Excluding Oxigen, which added a net fair value increase of R135-million, headline earnings had increased by 15% to R410-million, while core headline earnings rose to R417-million, equating to 61.48c and 62.53c a share respectively. Overall, Blue Label reported a 25% improvement in gross profit to R1.1-billion on the back of an increase in gross profit margins from 7.13% in the first half of the prior financial to 8.64% in the half-year to November. Blue Label&rsquo;s revenue increased 3% to R13.2-billion; however, including the R2.8-billion gross revenue generated on PINless top-ups, revenue effectively increased by 9%. South Africa&rsquo;s distribution operations delivered a 26% increase in its core headline earnings, while the group&rsquo;s Blue Label Mexico (BLM) continued to incur losses. Oxigen, which is now viewed as a venture capital investment, delivered a fair value gain of R264-million during the six months under review, which was offset by R9-million in deferred taxation and Blue Label&rsquo;s share of losses of R120-million for the half-year to November. BLM&rsquo;s losses declined from R67.4-million to R44.7-million, while Blue Label&rsquo;s share of losses declined by 32% from R32.5-million in the prior corresponding period to R22.1-million in the six months under review.