Hino South Africa, the commercial vehicle arm of Toyota South Africa Motors, has reclassified its Toyota Dyna truck as a light commercial vehicle (LCV), moving it from the medium commercial vehicle (MCV) segment where it has been competing since its introduction to South Africa in 1965. Toyota redesigned the Dyna&rsquo;s chassis to achieve a 50 kg weight loss, providing the vehicle with a gross vehicle mass of 3&nbsp;500 kg &ndash;&nbsp;a move which allows it to be classified as a LCV. This reclassification allows Hino South Africa to sidestep new speed-limiter regulations that came into effect last year. Hino South Africa VP Ernie Trautmann says the Dyna&rsquo;s normally aspirated three-litre diesel engine is not electronically-controlled, which he says means it cannot be fitted with a tamperproof speed limiter as is the case with the Hino 300-, 500- and 700-Series trucks. New regulations require all medium, heavy, and extra-heavy commercial vehicles to be fitted with speed limiters. MCVs are limited to a top speed of 100 km/h, while the speed for heavy and extra-heavy trucks is set at a maximum of 80 km/h. &ldquo;The alternative to changing the Dyna&rsquo;s category would have been to withdraw it from our range, which we did not want to do as it is a popular model for a wide variety of operations,&rdquo; notes Trautmann. &ldquo;Being categorised as a LCV means the Dyna will require only a Code B drivers licence. The truck will no longer have to undergo annual certificate-of-fitness testing, which is a further benefit for operators.&rdquo; He says Hino South Africa has taken advantage of the Dyna redesign to also equip the vehicle with an anti-lock braking system. The front panel of the vehicle is also now one piece, instead of three, and incorporates new designs for the grille and bumper. &ldquo;There is a new design for the interior with a restyled dashboard, improved seat material and cup holders for the driver and front passenger,&rdquo; says Trautmann. Hino South Africa sells around 40 Dyna units a month. &nbsp;