From Creamer Media in Johannesburg, this is the Real Economy Report. Sashnee Moodley: The Johannesburg Property Company invited media in December last year to view the construction sites of the new R340-million Johannesburg Council Chamber building and Alexandra townships latest mall, Alex Mall. David Oliveira reports. David Oliveira: JPC property development senior manager Alan Dinnie explained during the tour that the new building, expected to reach completion in March, would have seating for 361 council members, as well as 158 dedicated seats in a balcony for the public and media, addressing the lack of seating in the current council chamber. Johannesburg Property Company property development senior manager Alan Dinnie &nbsp; David Oliveira: Dinnie told media that the new chamber had been designed with the circular lekgotla &ndash; the traditional meeting place for African decision-makers &ndash; in mind. Johannesburg Property Company property development senior manager Alan Dinnie: &nbsp; David Oliveira: Dinnie also noted that a drum would be used to sound the start of council proceedings, rather than the European tradition of using a bell, which is currently used locally. The building will also have visible gold fixtures to symbolise its presence in Johannesburg, whose history is synonymous with the precious metal. A stand-out feature of the new building is its glass fa&ccedil;ade, which will enable not only council members to look out into Johannesburg but also the public to look in on council meetings. Dinnie highlighted that the fa&ccedil;ade symbolised the importance of transparency in governance. Johannesburg Property Company property development senior manager Alan Dinnie &nbsp; David Oliveira: Further, the new chamber&rsquo;s public viewing area, the People&rsquo;s Square, will symbolise the importance of public participation in governance. It will also be surrounded by flag poles, which will form part of a garden of remembrance for former council members. Johannesburg Property Company property development senior manager Alan Dinnie &nbsp; David Oliveira: There will also be a stoa walkway &ndash; a roofed colonnade typically used in ancient Greece &ndash; around the chamber. A technical control room will be located above the speaker&rsquo;s office, which will enable operators to focus on individual council members and to broadcast council sessions live. Further, six translation booths will be built above the control room. Dinnie highlighted that the community had played a significant role in the construction of the new council chamber, with about 20% of the R280-million construction spend being allocated to community development, as well as incubator and training programmes. He asserted that this had resulted in the employment of about 40 small, medium-sized and microenterprises on the project. Following the tour of the council chamber construction site, the JPC took media to view another of the initiatives it is supporting, the 29 282 m2 Alex Mall, another which started construction in October 2015 and is expected to open its doors for trading in March this year. Greater Alexandra Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Mpho Motsumi: &nbsp; David Oliveira: The mall stands as a celebration of the more than 100-year history of Alexandra township, which was formed in 2012, and also forms part of the Greater Alexandra Chamber of Commerce and Industry&rsquo;s Alexandra Renewal Project. Greater Alexandra Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Mpho Motsumi: &nbsp; David Oliveira: The shopping centre will have more than 100 retail stores and two miniature football fields with floodlights, which will border a 250-seat restaurant and a children&rsquo;s play area. The mall will also receive up to 30% of its energy requirement from rooftop solar panels and will also supplement a significant amount of its water needs through rainwater and grey-water harvesting system. About 1 000 Alexandra residents have received employment during the construction of the mall. Sashnee Moodley: That&rsquo;s Creamer Media&rsquo;s Real Economy Report. Join us again next week for more news and insight into South Africa&rsquo;s real economy.