JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) &ndash; A big capital investment is on the cards for AngloGold Ashanti&rsquo;s Mponeng gold mine, the world&rsquo;s deepest underground operation. The former Western Deep Levels Number One mine was on the receiving end of a surfeit of comment when AngloGold Ashanti presented cash-rich results on Tuesday.&nbsp; A brownfields expansion feasibility study is expected to be concluded towards the middle of next year on Mponeng, which upped production by 16% and cut all-in sustaining costs by 14% in the 12 months to December 31. Situated on the Far West Rand, the mine has a large 50-million-ounce resource base and a 12.5-million-ounce reserve at a high grade of 10 g/t. Up to now, AngloGold Ashanti chief operating officer South Africa Chris Sheppard and his team have been working on a phased development strategy, but that has now been swapped for a combined extraction approach, which is looking at shafts and a combination of declines. The new approach, which optimises the project as a whole, is expected to set up Mponeng as a producer of 450 000 oz/y of gold for more than 20 years, with all-in sustaining costs improving to about $750/oz. The capital cost of the Mponeng project will be about $1-billion nominal but is spread over ten years with a maximum capital spend of only $80-million a year. Typical of these deep-level extensions, project execution occurs in parallel with ongoing production over a fairly lengthy period, AngloGold Ashanti executive VP Graham Ehm explained to investors, analysts and journalists at the results presentation, which saw the JSE- and NYSE-listed gold mining company nearly double free cash flow to $278-million on lower production in the 12 months to December 31. Its gold production across its 17-mine portfolio in the period was 3.6-million ounces at a total cash cost of $744/oz. The work is now progressing to feasibility stage, for completion in the second half of 2018. Near Carletonville, in the North West, Mponeng is one of the lowest-cost producers in South Africa despite being 3 800 m deep. Mponeng has shown pleasing improvements, owing to a well-constructed derisked production plan supported by a comprehensive logistics debottlenecking programme, both of which are supported by a disciplined set of management and supervisory work routines, Sheppard commented to Mining Weekly Online earlier this year. AngloGold CEO Srinivasan &lsquo;Venkat&rsquo; Venkatakrishnan made it clear that the company is continuing to prioritise inward investment in brownfields projects rather than acquisitions, as it seeks to improve the quality of its production base and extend mine lives and he identified Mponeng to Mining Weekly Online as an opportunity that offers the best brownfields potential in the South Africa context. The mine, which has exclusively exploited the Ventersdorp Contact Reef (VCR) orebody down to its current great depth, is to further exploit the VCR but in future also mine the Carbon Leader Reef, which are both mined by the adjacent AngloGold-owned Savuka and TauTona gold mines, which are both earmarked for integration into Mponeng in the next 12 to 24 months. Venkat spoke of targeting after-tax returns in the mid-teens from the company&rsquo;s brownfields projects, which vary from 15% up to 30%. &ldquo;I know there&rsquo;s a case for brownfields projects to go lower but in terms of returns, we&rsquo;re very focused on it being in the mid-teens plus,&rdquo; he said.