Renault South Africa (SA) has launched a new method for consumers to explore the French manufacturer&rsquo;s vehicle range. Operating between 09h00 and 17h00, Monday to Friday, customers can connect to Live Showroom, which offers an online, real-time, no-pressure, virtual dealership experience that enables potential buyers, from the comfort of their chairs, access to the A to Z of each Renault model. &ldquo;A growing trend amongst South Africans is to research products online prior to going in-store,&rdquo; says Renault SA digital manager Yosheen Govender. &ldquo;I believe that we have been successful in creating a virtual experience that is second to none within the automotive industry in South Africa. &ldquo;Virtual experiences are the future of advertising and marketing and the rationale behind the creation of Live Showroom is to ensure that individuals logging in to our site will enjoy a real-time experience with none of the pressures attached to an actual visit to a dealership.&rdquo; Renault SA marketing and communications VP Brian Smith says US research shows that car buyers spend an average of 13 hours researching a vehicle online before they buy a new car. &ldquo;The video content related to car shopping has doubled from 2014 to 2015, with 69% of users saying that they are influenced by what they see. &ldquo;Our data shows that average [physical] dealer visits have dropped from 1.8 dealers to 1.1 dealers prior to the purchasing decision. This means most people visit one dealer before they buy a car.&rdquo; Smith says dealerships remain key, however, as consumers will do their research online, but still prefer to buy the vehicle at the dealership. How it Works Access to the website is via http://liveshowroom.renault.co.za. Navigate to the Follow A Call link. A new call is broadcast every 20 minutes and once the user has selected Follow A Call, he or she selects the live call and enters their name to gain access to the live video stream. Customers can join an existing live call at any time, experiencing the interactive vehicle demonstration in real time. Models are rotated on every call. While viewing the online vehicle demonstration, the user is able to type in questions to the promoter, who will then address these on completion of the demonstration. Once the call has terminated, at the click of a button, the user can opt to Book A Test Drive, or click on Find a Dealer or download a brochure. &ldquo;Since going live at the end of November, Renault&rsquo;s Live Showroom has yielded positive results,&rdquo; says Govender. Around 11 000 people have visited the website, with an average of 24 live video broadcasts a day. Calls have lasted an average of five minutes. &nbsp;