As the National Treasury allocates a further R5-billion to support financially-strapped students, new ways are being examined to develop a clear roadmap to mitigate the magnitude of the student funding challenge faced by young South Africans. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan on Wednesday said that, in addition to the R32-billion in increases in the allocations for higher education in last year&rsquo;s Budget Review and the Medium Term Budget Policy Statement, the additional R5-billion would be dispersed in the 2019/20 financial year of the medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF). &ldquo;Government has provided funds to ensure that no student whose combined family income is below R600 000 a year will face fee increases at universities and technical and vocational education and training (TVET) colleges for 2017. &ldquo;All poor students who applied and qualified for the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) awards, and who have been accepted by a university or a TVET college, will be supported,&rdquo; he assured. Delivering the 2017 Budget, Gordhan highlighted that revised medium-term spending on post-school education and training will reach around R77.5-billion in the 2017/18 financial year and R80.8-billion in the 2018/19 financial year. By 2019/20, spending will reach R89.8-billion &ndash; representing an average yearly growth rate of 9.2% over the medium term &ndash; of which 42.7% is allocated to university subsidies, 21.9% for the NSFAS and 9.7% for TVETs. &ldquo;Over the MTEF period, R21.1-billion [including the R5-billion allocation] has been added to the spending envelope for the sector. It also includes R7.3-billion to compensate universities and TVET colleges for the shortfall caused by the 0% fee increase for students from households earning less than R600 000 a year in the 2017 academic year,&rdquo; the National Treasury pointed out. A total of 615 000 university students will receive NSFAS loans and bursaries over the next three years, while around R7.7-billion in additional allocations will aid 2016 NSFAS university students to continue their studies. According to the National Treasury, university enrolments are expected to increase from one-million in 2016/17 to 1.1-million in 2019/20, while TVET enrolments are expected to remain stable at 710&nbsp;535. Meanwhile, Gordhan highlighted several broad principles aimed at developing a &ldquo;clear roadmap&rdquo; for a &ldquo;better higher education and training system&rdquo; that would unlock access, opportunity, financing and support for students in the university and further education and training sectors. These include resolving challenges identified in post-school education and training in a resource-dependent, phased manner; securing greater contributions from employers and industry through the funding of bursaries, internship opportunities and research programmes; and promoting a consultative, as opposed to a confrontational, approach by universities, students and education stakeholders to improve the access, quality and diversity in the higher education and training sector. &ldquo;Together, we will find a way forward that meets students&rsquo; funding needs fairly and sustainably, so that rising numbers of graduates can contribute positively to inclusive growth and transformation of the economy,&rdquo; he said. Over the medium term, government will continue to work on a sustainable method of funding higher education. The Heher Commission of Inquiry into Higher Education and Training will complete its work by June this year, following engagement with civil society.