Low customer activity across most areas of its operations has seen Torre Industries post &ldquo;disappointing results&rdquo; for the six months ended December 31, with normalised earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (Ebitda) decreasing by R35-million to R65-million. CEO Johan Botes said the interim results followed a challenging second half of the 2016 financial year, with the revenue from continuing operations decreasing by R57-million to R802-million, mainly as a result of a sale in the analytical services segment relating to a contract in Namibia in the prior period. Revenue and normalised Ebitda from continuing operations, however, increased by R53-million to R802-million and by R35-million to R65-million, respectively, as the group benefited from operational improvements that were initiated at the end of the 2016 financial year. The group&rsquo;s debt levels remained at similar levels to June 2016 as operations managed their working capital effectively during the period. Cash generated from continuing operating activities increased by 13% to R26-million. Torre has also reached agreement with African Agriculture Fund, which will acquire Torre&rsquo;s 55% shareholding in and loan claims against Kanu Equipment for $27.2-million. Torre will receive $13.5-million on the effective date, with the balance to be paid over a period of 14 months. &ldquo;We are seeing evidence of positive outlooks from our customer base although the sustainability of the commodity recovery remains uncertain. The group&rsquo;s focus will continue to be on organic growth and increasing the market share of its existing operations, while continuing to reduce costs. &ldquo;Various cost cutting initiatives have been implemented throughout the group and are expected to start bearing fruit over the next 12 to 24 months,&rdquo; said Botes. A strategic review by the board is under way and expected to be completed at the end of March to confirm the group&rsquo;s strategy to decrease its reliance on capital equipment; focus on Southern Africa; align costs in line with the weak economic environment; consolidate back offices while maintaining separate front offices; evaluate bolt-on acquisitions; and enhance human capital through learning and development and strategic appointments.