South African State-owned defence industrial group Denel announced on Wednesday that 21 of its Casspir NG2000 mine protected vehicles were ready for handing over to an African customer, competing an order for 45 of the vehicles. The first batch of 24 was delivered to the customer in December last year. The client country has not been identified. &ldquo;To strengthen Denel&rsquo;s commitment we have two in-country technical representatives who aid and assist the client on all technical matters and facilitate fleet management and support training,&rdquo; highlighted Denel Mechem GM Peter Faro. This has pleased the customer, which has had past experience of buying equipment, with little or no technical support after delivery. Denel can also provide training for both drivers and technicians. It can further supply spares for Level 1 to Level 3 repairs.&nbsp; The order involved eight versions of the Casspir NG2000 family. These were the ambulance, command and control, fire support, fuel tanker, recovery, troop carrier and water tanker versions. In all, there are 15 versions of the NG2000 series. Most components and the drive train are common to all 15 versions and can be interchanged between them. The company also produces a mine protected logistical truck with the same drive train and armoured hull. Denel describes the Casspir NG2000 as &ldquo;improved&rdquo; but &ldquo;still affordable, easy to maintain and cost-effective to operate.&rdquo; Faro noted that, since production of the latest generation Casspir was started in 2010, the demand for it has been high. More than 200 have been sold to other African countries and to the United Nations. These 45 Casspirs will be used to equip a newly created contingent whose main purpose will be to support African Union peace missions. The customer could place a follow-up order for a significantly larger number of NG2000 vehicles and the related mine protected logistical vehicles. &ldquo;Currently, Denel enjoys a big interest for local supply and has a current order running for the supply to a local client,&rdquo; the company also reported. No further details were given.