From Auto Africa, to the Johannesburg International Motor Show, to the Festival of Motoring, to the South African (SA) Motoring Experience . . . In an effort to seek increased support from cost-conscious motor manufacturers and consumers, South Africa&rsquo;s premier motoring event has again been revised and rebranded, this time to the 2017 WesBank SA Motoring Experience. The event takes place at the Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit from September 1 to 3, and is the only industry-endorsed motor show on the local calendar for 2017. The development of the SA Festival of Motoring and its offshoot, the WesBank Motoring Experience, by SA Shows Messe Frankfurt, flowed from Auto Africa and the Johannesburg International Motor Show, which took place bi-annually. &ldquo;This was basically a static display of vehicles and related products. Our move to significantly alter the concept of a motor show follows the international trend where several motor shows, including some events with long histories, have come to the end of their useful life and been discontinued,&rdquo; explains chief organiser of the SA Motoring Experience, SA Shows Messe Frankfurt CEO Konstantin von Vieregge. &ldquo;We have decided to develop a fresh new approach to motoring events, instead of following some international motor show organisers, by discontinuing the local event entirely. Last year we staged [the first] Festival of Motoring at Kyalami. &ldquo;That event was well accepted by many exhibitors and visitors, but we realised that fine-tuning was required.&rdquo; Messe Frankfurt has formalised its global partnership with the organisers of the Goodwood Festival of Speed, in the UK, to assist in sourcing attractive content for the new show, says Von Vieregge. &ldquo;We believe the combination of Messe Frankfurt&rsquo;s show expertise and the flair of the Goodwood team will ensure a most memorable experience at the country&rsquo;s prime motoring venue. &ldquo;The experiential and hands-on elements worked particularly well for the visitors, according to our research during last year&rsquo;s festival, so there will be greater focus on these types of activity this year.&rdquo; Several vehicle manufacturers and distributors are arranging some innovative, first-hand activations of their own, promises Von Vieregge. &ldquo;In addition, our team from SA Shows Messe Frankfurt will be responsible for many aspects of the show, including test-drives around the famous race track and off-road driving experiences at the improved 4x4 course. This year the off-road activity area will have its own, dedicated catering, as well as display stands for those companies involved in the ride-and-drive.&rdquo; This year the handling track will not be confined to one manufacturer, which will result in more variety for visitors to this facility, he adds. Super car experiences on the track will again be a high priority item, as well as access to the pit area. &ldquo;The response from the motor industry to the WesBank Motoring Experience 2017 has been most encouraging. Already more than 20 brands are committed to participate, including several which did not have a presence at the 2016 festival,&rdquo; says Von Vieregge. He says a major attraction this year will be a competition for elite classic cars. The competition will include not only rare cars, but South African motorsport legends and cars which have a unique place in local motoring history. &nbsp;