Data released by the Department of Trade and Industry on Monday indicated that new-vehicle sales in June delivered some growth, even if marginal, following two months of decline. Sales numbers showed that the South African total new-vehicle market inched up 0.9% compared with June last year, to 45 369 units. New-vehicle exports from South Africa also delivered some good news, increasing by a modest 1.4%, to 31 631 units. Not all segments of the new-vehicle market gained ground, however. The new passenger car market in June declined by 2.2%, to 28 639 units. Sales of bakkies, panel vans and minibuses jumped a healthy 8%, to 14 278 units. Medium truck sales also recorded growth, increasing by 4.4% compared with June last year, to 800 units. Sales of heavy trucks and buses declined by 2.8%, to 1 652 units. The National Association of Automobile Manufacturers of South Africa (Naamsa) noted in a statement that &ldquo;the [June] domestic sales numbers had been reasonably encouraging, at the upper end of general expectations&rdquo;. The sales outlook for the second half of the year, however, remained uncertain. &ldquo;Political tensions and subdued economic growth prospects continue to impact negatively on business confidence and consumer sentiment,&rdquo; said Naamsa. &ldquo;The challenges confronting South Africa are varied and complex. Concerted steps are required by business, government and labour to create a more investor-friendly environment as a means of boosting growth. &ldquo;At this stage, domestic new vehicle sales for 2017 was likely to remain flat, at best,&rdquo; the association said. &ldquo;On the other hand, vehicle exports should benefit from expectations of continued improvement in global growth. Negative to Date The total new-vehicle market in South Africa was down 1.3% for the first six months of the year, with exports declining by 7.4%, said WesBank brand and communications head Rudolf Mahoney. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t imagine that we will have another year as we did last year, when new-vehicle sales were down by more than 11%. &ldquo;I think we are at the bottom of the drop, and we&rsquo;ll probably move sideways for the rest of the year. However, this depends on how the country&rsquo;s political scenarios play out going forward.&rdquo; Mahoney noted that the average new-car deal breached R300 000 for the first time ever in June, with the average used-car deal now at R202 000. &ldquo;A high number of clients are migrating from new to used and there are a lot of demo stock in the used market.&rdquo; He added that the number of consumers opting for fixed interest rates compared with linked interest rates was an even 50:50 split in March. The number of consumers seeking the security of fixed interest rates had, however, suddenly and sharply increased to 63% in June, compared with 37% seeking a linked interest rate. &ldquo;This indicates that there is a lot of nervousness in the market.&rdquo; New Most Popular Vehicle for SA? The most popular vehicle on sale in South Africa last year was the Toyota Hilux, at 35 428 units. In fact, the one-ton bakkie has achieved sales leadership in South Africa 44 years out of the past 47 years, notes Toyota. However, Ford&rsquo;s Ranger has managed to outsell the Hilux for the first six months of 2017, at 17 014 units, compared with the Hilux&rsquo;s 16 827 units. Both pickups are produced in South Africa. &nbsp;