Developing and embracing a circular economy is one of the key topics of discussion at Word Economic Forum (WEF) Africa, being held in Durban this week. A circular economy is an alternative to a traditional linear economy, where countries manufacture products and keep resources in use for as long as possible. Speaking to Engineering News Online during a tour of the European Union- (EU-) supported Petco Bottle-2-Bottle Plastic Recycling facility Extrupel, in Ekurhuleni, Gauteng, EU environment director-general Daniel Calleja said South Africa was becoming more aware of opportunities offered by a circular economy, but that there was still a long way to go. &ldquo;Ninety per cent of South Africa&rsquo;s waste is dumped in landfills, which is a major challenge to overcome. A mindset change needs to occur,&rdquo; he said. Calleja, who will discuss the importance of implanting a circular economy at the WEF Africa, added that the EU had been engaging in policy dialogue with key State departments to explain measures that are being taken in Europe to promote circular economic activity. &ldquo;South Africa is the EU&rsquo;s main strategic partner in Africa. Last September, the EU signed an agreement with South Africa to develop policy dialogue relating to climate change, the environment and the promotion of a circular economy.&rdquo; He explained that the agreement that was signed last year was to form cross-border policy dialogues and projects. &ldquo;What we are doing now is discussing policy issues and projects aimed at cooperation and promoting an economy that is more resource efficient,&rdquo; Calleja said. He highlighted that the aim of a circular economy was to increase the reuse of resources and decrease waste. &ldquo;South Africa has a strong commitment towards growth and the creation of jobs [in line with its National Development Plan], which can be achieved through a circular economy. The debate in the country so far has been more energy oriented; however, a circular economy also includes designing products in an intelligent way and promoting green public procurement,&rdquo; Calleja enthused.&nbsp; He noted that, in Europe, by 2030, landfill will be reduced to only 5%, which means that 90% of waste has to be recycled. &ldquo;To achieve this, Europe must focus on avoiding waste, reducing energy consumption and becoming more energy efficient,&rdquo; he said, highlighting that less waste is produced through the reuse of products. He pointed out that the waste produced by one company can become the raw material used in a different company&rsquo;s manufacturing, a process called industrial symbiosis. Calleja added that Europe estimates that it can create two-million jobs by moving towards a circular economy, as well as reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by between 2% and 4%. &ldquo;The EU aims to achieve a zero waste society and we believe it can be done,&rdquo; he said.