Johannesburg Roads Agency (JRA) has begun a R30-million upgrade of the M2 West highway and Main Reef road, and linked extensions, to ease congestion and improve access on this key arterial route. Speaking at a sodturning ceremony on the M2 freeway on Thursday, Transport MMC Nonhlanhla Makhuba said Main Reef road and its extensions play a critical role in Johannesburg&rsquo;s road network. &ldquo;It links the M1, M2, M7, N1 and R24 freeways, which are some of the major freeways forming the backbone of the city&rsquo;s road network,&rdquo; she said. The project includes the construction of additional lanes and improvements to traffic signals and is expected to be completed by December. The upgrades entail road widening between Treu road, Park drive and Crownwood road, as well as adding a new lane from Church street up to the M1 and M2 motorways. The works include traffic signal improvements from the Production road and Dorado avenue intersections up to Treu road, Selby extensions and Crown City extensions, including wards 58 and 124. &ldquo;The roads are an essential link for many businesses, as well as commuters on their way to and from work and will help further our goals of achieving 5% economic growth within Johannesburg,&rdquo; Makhuba said. JRA MD Dr Sean Phillips said Johannesburg&rsquo;s road network links to the provincial and national roads network. &ldquo;We have, therefore, undertaken a network study which re-evaluated key roads in the region, considering freight, public transport, improvements by authorities, the spatial development framework and other pertinent planning in the area,&rdquo; he said. Phillips added that the study focused on potential upgrades to improve current levels of service along Main Reef road, by addressing improvements to roads that are the biggest causes to congestion. &ldquo;A major contributing factor to congestion along Main Reef road is the intense development between Production road and Miriam Makeba street.&rdquo; Construction work will be carried out at night to fast-track planned upgrades, with minimal impact on road users. Lane closures will be effective between 19:00 and 05:00 daily. &ldquo;To ease congestion during the construction period, motorists are advised to use alternative routes and take into consideration increased travelling times,&rdquo; he said.