The decision by General Motors (GM) to pull out of South Africa will &ldquo;have negative consequences on component suppliers to the company&rsquo;s existing Chevrolet assembly lines&rdquo;, says National Association of Automotive Component and Allied Manufacturers (Naacam) executive director Renai Moothilal. &ldquo;We are obviously concerned at the announcement that General Motors will be stopping the production and sale of its vehicles in South Africa.&rdquo; Moothilal said on Friday that Naacam did not yet know how many component suppliers would be affected by GM&rsquo;s shock decision, announced on Thursday. The decision would see GM South Africa (GMSA) cease Chevrolet production and sales in South Africa by the end of 2017. Isuzu KB one-ton and Isuzu truck production would continue, under the Isuzu Motors South Africa (IMSA) banner. Japan&rsquo;s Isuzu Motors announced on Thursday that it would acquire GMSA&rsquo;s Port Elizabeth plant from GM, to form IMSA. Isuzu assembly at GMSA made up around 50% of production at the Port Elizabeth plant. GMSA total production was well in excess of 2 000 units a month, on average. Moothilal added that Isuzu Motors&rsquo; announcement at least offered a &ldquo;silver lining&rdquo; to GM&rsquo;s decision to depart South Africa. &ldquo;We view this as a level of confidence shown in South Africa as a manufacturing destination. We look forward to working with Isuzu to find ways to optimise the use of South African suppliers.&rdquo; Moothilal added that it was Naacam&rsquo;s understanding that GM exited South Africa &ldquo;on the back of a weak domestic sales outlook, and a general reprioritisation of markets in terms of its global strategy. &ldquo;At the same time, the company announced its exit from India. Thus the decision seems to be more GM centric. However, we remain of the view that a flourishing domestic and regional market is vital to the long-term sustainability of the auto manufacturing sector.&rdquo; GM also announced on Thursday that it would cease Chevrolet sales in India by the end of 2017. However, its plant at Talegaon would continue as an export hub for a number of markets abroad. The group added that Isuzu Motors would also acquire its 57.7% shareholding in GM East Africa, assuming management control. GM would also withdraw sales of the Chevrolet brand from the East African market. &nbsp;