Business aviation company ExecuJet reported on Wednesday that its African operations had enjoyed significant growth in activity during the first quarter of this year. The company, which is part of the Luxaviation Group, has Fixed-base operations (FBOs) at Lanseria International Airport (northwest of Johannesburg and southwest of Pretoria) and Cape Town International Airport, in South Africa, and Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos, Nigeria. In comparison to the first quarter of last year, flight numbers at its Lanseria FBO increased by 31% during the same period of this year. The FBO at Cape Town enjoyed a 19% increase while the Lagos FBO saw a rise of 13%. &ldquo;We have had a great start to the year in Africa,&rdquo; affirmed company VP: Africa Graeme Duckworth. &ldquo;Our continual growth in flight movements through our facilities is testament to ExecuJet&rsquo;s and the Luxaviation Group&rsquo;s commitment to delivering outstanding customer service and industry expertise.&rdquo; &ldquo;Given the bright start ExecuJet has made in the region this year, we are optimistic that we will see even further increases this time next year and that there will be a positive economic shift allowing businesses in our sector to progress,&rdquo; he added. &ldquo;Aviation is a fantastic tool for economic growth, as it generates business and brings people together.&rdquo; &ldquo;Business aviation plays an important role in stimulating the economy because people still prefer to do business face to face and, in many parts of Africa, air travel is the only method of commuting safely,&rdquo; he highlighted. &ldquo;Private flying shouldn&rsquo;t be seen just as a luxury for the super-rich, but more importantly as a tool for companies to get to a specific place at a specific time.&rdquo; ExecuJet has 25 FBO facilities, manages 165 business jets and operates authorised maintenance facilities around the world. In addition to Africa, it has operations in the Asia-Pacific, Caribbean, Europe, Latin America and the Middle East. Last year saw the company&rsquo;s African FBOs handle many celebrity, diplomatic, ministerial and Heads of State flights. &ldquo;The industry is always changing, so it&rsquo;s certainly an exciting time to be part of this evolution,&rdquo; concluded Duckworth.