
	Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga on Monday, said the city will expand its A Re Yeng bus service into South Africa’s capital city’s high density areas in a bid to provide a safe, affordable, accessible and reliable transport system. 
	“Let me start by first congratulating the A Re Yeng team under the guidance of Member of the Mayoral Committee (MMC) for Roads and Transport [Sheila Lynn Senkubuge], for successfully taking over the bus service operations from AutoPax in Mamelodi with effect from today [Monday],” Msimanga said in Pretoria. 
	“It has always been our desire to provide transport services to high density areas that do not have fast modes of transport. This is with specific reference to places such as Mamelodi, Atteridgeville and Soshanguve. In the near future, we will be reaching out to Hammaskraal commuters through the compensation agreement with the taxi industry.” 
	Msimanga said the unavailability of reliable and efficient public transport has far-reaching economic effects. To that effect, Msimanga said millions have been budgeted for, to upscale up the public transport infrastructure. 
	“Mobility and transport is a very critical issue for commuters and drivers. The challenge of the late public transport impacts negatively on the commuters because unreliable transport often causes our people to arrive late to work. This often impacts on their jobs in some instance result in dismissal from work,” said Msimanga. 
	“We have budgeted R669-million, R343-million and R426-million for financial years 2017/18/19 respectively towards the BRT infrastructure.” 
	Msimanga also emphasised that South Africa’s capital city hopes not only to provide reliable and efficient public transport service, but the service will be bolstered by lower emissions. 
	Tshwane also unveiled the Belle Ombre Depot on Monday. The new bus depot, which is already being utilised, has the capacity to accommodate 114 busses and has a fully equipped workshop which can service both compressed natural gas and diesel busses. 
	Msimanga said of the 114 bus fleet, 40 run on compressed natural gas, thus making Tshwane the first city in sub-Saharan Africa to run full CNG propelled buses. 
	The unveiling ceremony on Monday, was attended by Gauteng MEC for Transport Ismail Vadi. 